---
title: "gao-25-107427"
processed_date: "2025-09-17T11:27:16.485545"
source_file: "gao-25-107427.pdf"
conversion_method: "pdfplumber"
---

# Document Metadata

- **Author**: U.S. Government Accountability Office, http://www.gao.gov
- **Company**: GAO
- **ContentTypeId**: 0x010100601E3C5A7646D24EB86DB2A4A3B965C1
- **CreationDate**: D:20250911072429-04'00'
- **Creator**: Acrobat PDFMaker 25 for Word
- **ModDate**: D:20250911125916-04'00'
- **Producer**: Adobe PDF Library 25.1.143
- **SourceModified**: D:20250911112246
- **Title**: GAO-25-107427, DOD Financial Management: Status of Remediation Efforts to Meet Audit Mandate
- **_dlc_DocIdItemGuid**: 44becc92-7768-45bd-bd67-63ca21b5c5ac

---

## Page 1

U.S. Government Accountability Office
DOD Financial Management: Status of
Remediation Efforts to Meet Audit Mandate
GAO-25-107427
Q&A Report to Congressional Committees
September 16, 2025
Why This Matters The Department of Defense (DOD) is responsible for about half of the federal
government’s discretionary spending and about 82 percent of the reported total
physical assets. As of fiscal year 2024, DOD remains the only major federal
agency that has never achieved an unmodified (“clean”) audit opinion on its
financial statements. In response to the statutory mandate requiring a clean audit
opinion by December 31, 2028, DOD reported taking actions to improve audit
readiness and to support the timely achievement of a clean audit opinion by the
mandated deadline.
Having reliable, useful, and timely financial information is important for day-to-
day management and decision-making and for demonstrating accountability over
DOD’s extensive resources. Financial statement audits have value far beyond
the audit opinion: they identify vulnerabilities, improve operations, increase
transparency and visibility of financial management issues, and provide a
positive return on investment.
We performed this audit in connection with the statutory requirement for GAO to
audit the U.S. government’s consolidated financial statements, which cover all
accounts and associated activities of executive branch agencies, including DOD.
This report provides information on audit approaches the independent public
accountants (IPA) took, the results of DOD’s and the military services’ fiscal year
2024 financial statement audits, as well as DOD’s planned timelines for
addressing key audit findings.
Key Takeaways
• Better financial management is critical to DOD’s mission readiness, and it is
important to demonstrating that DOD’s financial statements and underlying
financial information are reliable for decision-making.
• DOD has realized many benefits from its financial statement audits. For
example, the DOD Office of Inspector General (OIG) reported that DOD’s
fiscal year 2024 remediation plans included the retirement of 89 outdated
information systems and that this would help DOD progress toward
compliance and will result in savings of at least $760 million annually through
fiscal year 2029.
• DOD still needs to make substantial progress in remediating its pervasive
deficiencies, which auditors call material weaknesses, reported for fiscal year
2024. DOD OIG reported that some of these material weaknesses, if not
resolved, could continue to impede DOD’s and its component reporting
entities’ ability to achieve a clean audit opinion.
Page 1 GAO-25-107427 DOD Financial Management


### Tables

#### Table 1

|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  | U.S. Government Accountability Office |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  | DOD Financial Management: Status of |  |  |  |
|  | Remediation Efforts to Meet Audit Mandate |  |  |  |
|  | GAO-25-107427 |  |  |  |
|  | Q&A Report to Congressional Committees |  |  |  |
|  | September 16, 2025 |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |

## Page 2

Why are financial Financial statement audits are an important tool to help ensure sound financial
statement audits management practices that produce reliable, useful, and timely financial
information. For DOD, obtaining a clean audit opinion is essential to
important?
demonstrating that its financial statements and underlying financial information
are reliable for day-to-day management, decision-making and efficient and
effective operations, and accountability over its extensive resources. Reliable
financial data and asset accountability are critical to help ensure mission
readiness. Ultimately, the primary purpose of these audits is to provide an
independent opinion on the reliability of DOD’s financial statements.
Does DOD undergo Yes. Federal law has required DOD to undergo annual full-scope, agencywide
annual financial financial statement audits since fiscal year 2018.1 For executive agencies like
DOD, either the agency’s inspector general or IPAs perform the audits.2
statement audits?
However, DOD and many of its component reporting entities’ fiscal years 2018
through 2024 financial statement audits resulted in disclaimers of opinion.3
Though, it should be noted, the Marine Corps received a clean audit opinion on
its fiscal year 2023 financial statements, becoming the first military service to
ever do so, and again receiving a clean audit opinion for fiscal year 2024.4
Pervasive weaknesses have adversely affected DOD's ability to prepare
auditable financial statements. This is one of three major impediments preventing
GAO from expressing an audit opinion on the U.S. government’s consolidated
financial statements.5
An audit that results in a clean audit opinion is one in which auditors conclude
that financial statements are presented fairly, in all material respects, in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. An audit that results in
a disclaimer of opinion is one in which auditors could not express an audit
opinion on the financial statements, because the auditors were unable to obtain
sufficient, appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for an opinion and the
possible effect of undetected misstatements was material and pervasive.
In its report, Part 2. Understanding the Results of the Audit of the FY 2024 DOD
Financial Statements, DOD OIG noted that material weaknesses identified at
DOD and some of its component reporting entities prevented auditors from
performing the necessary procedures to conclude on the reliability of the financial
statements.
What benefits has DOD A financial statement audit has value by helping identify vulnerabilities and ways
seen from financial to improve operations. We previously reported that financial statement audits
have resulted in short- and long-term benefits, including increased transparency
statement audits?
and visibility of financial management issues, and are providing a positive return
on investment.6 For example, DOD OIG reported that DOD’s fiscal year 2024
remediation plans included the retirement of 89 outdated information systems. It
reported that this would help DOD progress toward compliance and result in
savings of at least $760 million each year through fiscal year 2029.7
These audit insights help DOD to assess what is performing well and what areas
still need improvement. For example, DOD OIG reported that DOD addressing its
asset accountability challenges will provide leadership with more accurate
information to assist in making operational decisions. The OIG noted that
accurate asset data enable informed decisions about maintenance, replacement,
and disposal, leading to better resource allocation and long-term planning. This
in turn improves operations and helps better ensure optimum use of resources to
support warfighter priorities.
These financial statement audits have resulted in a range of financial and
operational benefits, including cost savings and avoidances, improved ability to
Page 2 GAO-25-107427 DOD Financial Management


## Page 3

use funds, improvements to financial systems and data, mitigation of
cybersecurity risks, enhanced visibility over assets and inventory, and more
efficient processes even when auditors have reported a disclaimer of opinion
(see fig. 1).8
Figure 1: Examples of Financial and Operational Benefits of Department of Defense (DOD) Financial
Statement Audits
What has prevented Material weaknesses are a major obstacle to DOD achieving a clean audit
DOD from obtaining a opinion.9 A material weakness in financial reporting is a deficiency, or
combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that
clean audit opinion?
there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity’s
financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and corrected, on a timely
basis. This may mean that the entity’s deficiencies in internal controls are so
significant that they could prevent its management from detecting and correcting
a material misstatement in the financial statements in a timely manner.
According to DOD OIG, material weaknesses associated with IT are material
weaknesses that continue to hinder audit progress for DOD and its component
reporting entities. Specifically, the OIG reported that the lack of effective internal
controls over financial management systems limits the auditor’s ability to rely on
the information produced by those systems and used to support the DOD
agencywide financial statements. These weaknesses not only hinder audit
progress but also increase the risk of DOD making ill-informed enterprise-wide
business decisions, which could have a direct impact on DOD’s mission to
ensure the security of our nation.
Page 3 GAO-25-107427 DOD Financial Management


## Page 4

DOD OIG reported that many of DOD’s financial management systems were
outdated and required various work arounds due to limitations and shortcomings
of the systems environments. The OIG noted that, when the Marine Corps relied
more heavily on modern Enterprise ‑Resource Planning systems, the Marine
Corps reduced the amount of unmatched disbursements by tens of millions of
dollars.10 DOD OIG also reported that a significant hurdle to making progress on
financial statement auditability is DOD’s inability to produce a complete,
accurate, and reconcilable universe of transactions, which is a complete list of
detailed transactions to support financial statement balances. Without this,
auditors cannot determine if financial statement balances are complete and
accurate.
What effect do NFRs DOD’s remediation of notices of findings and recommendations (NFR) plays a
have on DOD’s efforts significant role in its attempt to obtain a clean audit opinion. Auditors provide
direct, actionable feedback through NFRs that describe weaknesses in DOD’s
to obtain a clean audit
business processes, IT systems, and financial reporting that require remediation.
opinion?
These NFRs support individual deficiencies or combinations of deficiencies
making up material weaknesses.
According to Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) (OUSD(C))
officials, DOD measures and tracks its NFR remediation rate (also called NFR
closure rate), a key performance indicator, to manage risks associated with
unresolved findings and accelerate DOD’s remediation efforts to address
material weaknesses.11
DOD confers with its auditors on the prioritization of NFRs to determine those
DOD must remediate to get a material weakness downgrade or closure.12 To do
so, DOD must conduct and document root-cause analyses on identified
deficiencies, then design and implement strategies to correct them.
At the beginning of the fiscal year 2024 financial statement audits, DOD OIG
noted that DOD and its component reporting entities had a total of 3,277 open
NFRs.13 And at the end of the fiscal year 2024 financial statement audits, it noted
that auditors closed 952 of the 3,277 NFRs and issued or reissued 2,912 NFRs
in fiscal year 2024.14 Appendix I provides further details on the NFR breakout.
Over time, what has The rate at which DOD remediated NFRs agencywide has been lower in recent
been DOD’s NFR years as compared with earlier years. Figure 2 shows the percentage of DOD’s
remediated NFRs for fiscal years 2019 through 2023.
remediation rate?
Page 4 GAO-25-107427 DOD Financial Management


## Page 5

Figure 2: Percentage of Notice of Findings and Recommendations (NFR) Remediated During Fiscal
Years 2019 Through 2023
According to DOD, the higher remediation rates in the earlier years were due to
the department remediating simpler issues during that time. However, the
remaining problems are more complex, involving internal and external
dependencies that require collaboration across multiple functional areas.
Did the number of No, the auditors reported 28 material weaknesses for DOD at the agencywide
DOD’s material level in both fiscal years 2024 and 2023. They downgraded one material
weakness related to contingent legal liabilities but identified a new one related to
weaknesses change in
DOD’s reporting of leases, resulting in no net change for fiscal year 2024. For the
fiscal year 2024 audits?
military services, the number of material weaknesses auditors reported generally
decreased in the same period (see the fig. 3).
Figure 3: Department of Defense’s (DOD) and the Military Services’ Material Weaknesses for Fiscal
Years 2023 and 2024
Page 5 GAO-25-107427 DOD Financial Management


## Page 6

What are DOD’s and the DOD and the military services use audit roadmaps to document high-level plans
military services’ for remediating material weaknesses. The audit roadmaps guide DOD’s
implementation of corrective measures and establish milestones against which
remediation plans?
entities can measure progress toward getting clean audit opinions. These
roadmaps generally include target remediation dates for their auditor-identified
material weaknesses. DOD and the military services have reinforced their
commitment to achieving clean audit opinions by the end of 2028, as the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 mandates.15 As a result of the
mandate, DOD reported in fiscal year 2024 that it realigned each reporting
entities’ roadmap to accelerate audit progress.
However, DOD and the military services have long-standing material
weaknesses, including with IT, that could make achieving that deadline
challenging. Figure 4 shows information captured on DOD’s and the military
services’ audit roadmaps as well as target remediation dates to facilitate
achieving clean audit opinions by fiscal year 2028.
Figure 4: Information Noted in DOD’s Fiscal Year 2024 Roadmaps
aDOD’s fiscal year 2024 AFR contained updated fiscal year 2024 target remediation dates
compared with its roadmap, so we used the information in the AFR.
bThe Navy’s audit roadmap did not include all its independent public accountant-identified material
weaknesses or their target remediation dates. Instead, the Navy used its Deficiency Tracking Tool
Page 6 GAO-25-107427 DOD Financial Management


## Page 7

to track each material weakness reported in its AFR, develop corrective action plans, set target
remediation dates, and monitor implementation progress.
cThe Marine Corps also used the Navy’s Deficiency Tracking Tool to develop corrective action
plans, set target remediation dates, and monitor implementation progress.
dDOD’s general funds are used for collections not earmarked by law for specific purposes, the
proceeds of general borrowing, and the expenditure of these moneys. The general fund
appropriations cover costs including personnel, operations and maintenance, research and
development, procurement, and military construction.
eDOD’s working capital funds conduct business-like activities and receive funding to establish an
initial corpus through an appropriation or a transfer of resources from existing appropriations or
funds. The corpus finances operations and transactions flowing through the fund. Each working
capital fund obtains the goods and services sold to customers on a reimbursable basis and
maintains the corpus. Reimbursable receipts fund future operations and generally are available in
their entirety for use without further congressional action.
fThe Navy’s fiscal year 2025’s audit roadmap indicated that the Navy would achieve a clean audit
opinion on its working capital fund by fiscal year 2027. However, in August 2025, Navy officials
stated that they changed their strategies to accelerate their plans and achieve a clean audit opinion
on the Navy’s working capital fund by fiscal year 2026.
How do DOD’s and the DOD and the military services use annual audits to update, as appropriate, their
military services’ remediation milestones and, in some cases, their roadmaps’ target remediation
dates. OUSD(C) officials told us remediation dates in DOD’s audit roadmaps are
annual audits affect
informed by DOD component level remediation activity.
their roadmaps?
OUSD(C) officials stated that they review DOD’s agency financial report (AFR) to
identify new deficiencies. They then update the agencywide roadmap with
changes to the data elements and target remediation dates.
Military services officials stated that they add IPA-identified deficiencies (NFR) to
their respective NFR tracking systems, and they develop corrective action plans
for them. For those NFRs and corrective action plans the military services identify
as having an effect on their material weaknesses, they adjust (if necessary) the
target remediation dates to match those in their corrective action plans.
DOD noted that it reviews each roadmap annually, and deviations require
approval from the Deputy Secretary of Defense and Under Secretary of Defense
(Comptroller)/Chief Financial Officer.
Have DOD or the Yes, DOD and the relevant military services have extended milestone dates for
military services audit remediation on several occasions.
extended remediation • DOD. DOD’s fiscal year 2024 AFR showed that eight of its 28 material
milestones? weaknesses had updated target remediation dates that were extended from
those listed in its fiscal year 2023 audit roadmap. Also, DOD accelerated four
material weaknesses’ target remediation dates.16
• Army. The Army’s fiscal year 2024 audit roadmap showed that two of its 17
general fund material weaknesses and two of its 14 working capital fund
material weaknesses had updated target remediation dates that were
extended from those listed in its fiscal year 2023 audit roadmap. Also, the
Army accelerated the target remediation date of one general fund material
weakness.
• Navy. The Navy’s fiscal year 2024 AFR showed that six of its 16 general fund
material weaknesses and three of its 12 working capital fund material
weaknesses had updated target remediation dates that were extended from
those listed in its fiscal year 2023 AFR. Also, the Navy accelerated the target
remediation date of one general fund material weakness.17
Page 7 GAO-25-107427 DOD Financial Management


## Page 8

• Air Force. The Air Force’s fiscal year 2024 audit roadmap showed that two of
its nine general fund material weaknesses had updated target remediation
dates that were extended from those listed in its fiscal year 2023 audit
roadmap.
The Marine Corps did not extend any milestone dates; it underwent a 2-year
audit and achieved a clean audit opinion for fiscal year 2023. Therefore, it had
only one audit roadmap as of the time we issued our report.
Did DOD and the Yes, officials from OUSD(C) and the military services said they used the
military services Secretary of Defense’s Fiscal Year 2024 Financial Statement Audit Priorities
memorandum to prioritize the material weaknesses on which to focus their
prioritize their
remediation efforts for fiscal year 2024. OUSD(C) officials added that for the
remediation efforts?
agencywide audit, they also used the DOD OIG report Understanding the Results
of the Audit of the FY 2023 DOD Financial Statements.18
Table 1 shows these audit priority areas and the related material weaknesses
noted in DOD OIG’s report for the fiscal year 2023 audit.
Table 1: Secretary of Defense’s Fiscal Year 2024 Audit Priority Areas and Related Material Weaknesses
Noted in the Department of Defense (DOD) Office of Inspector General’s (OIG) Report for the Fiscal Year
2023’s Audit
Secretary of Defense fiscal year 2024 Related material weaknesses noted in DOD OIG’s report
audit priority for the fiscal year 2023 audit
Improve fund balance with Treasury Fund balance with Treasury
Strengthen internal control environment Access controls
Configuration management
Segregation of duties
Create a universe of transactions Universe of transactions
Optimize asset valuations General property, plant, and equipment
Joint Strike Fighter Program
Government property in the possession of contractors
Inventory and stockpile materials
Operating materials and supplies
Source: GAO analysis of DOD information. | GAO-25-107427
DOD did not make substantial progress in remediating its material weaknesses
for fiscal year 2024. Although DOD’s auditors downgraded one material
weakness related to contingent legal liabilities, they identified a new one related
to DOD’s reporting of leases, resulting in no net change to the number of material
weaknesses identified in DOD’s fiscal year 2024 AFR compared with its fiscal
year 2023 AFR. And all the material weaknesses related to the Secretary of
Defense’s fiscal year 2024 audit priorities were still present.
What contributed to the Three factors contributed to the Marine Corps obtaining a clean audit opinion in
Marine Corps obtaining fiscal years 2023 and 2024: a new financial management system, a substantive-
based testing approach, and a 2-year audit cycle.
a clean opinion?
• Migration to new financial management system. In fiscal year 2020, the
Marine Corps began planning to transition from using the legacy general
Page 8 GAO-25-107427 DOD Financial Management


## Page 9

ledger Standard Accounting Budgeting and Reporting System (SABRS) to
Defense Agencies Initiative (DAI) as its general ledger accounting system; it
officially began transitioning in fiscal year 2022.19 The Marine Corps stated
that its primary objective in the transition to the DAI platform was to improve
its financial management. This ultimately helped it to achieve a clean audit
opinion by, for example, improving the accuracy and efficiency of its financial
reporting capabilities and resolving some of its material weaknesses.
• Substantive-based testing approach. Marine Corps’ auditors used a
substantive-based testing approach for the fiscal year 2023 audit and
repeated it for the fiscal year 2024 audit. Using this approach to conduct the
audit was labor intensive for both the auditor and the Marine Corps because
the auditors were unable to rely on the Marine Corps’ internal controls over
financial reporting. This resulted in an increase in detailed testing and
required the Marine Corps to produce a large volume of information for
auditors to test, which supported transactions, account balances, and other
adjustments made while preparing financial statements.
In addition, this approach required the auditors to physically count military
equipment, ammunition, and other property more extensively. The Marine
Corps’ IPAs undertook this approach to obtain adequate audit evidence to
support a clean audit opinion.
• Two-year audit cycle. Rather than plan for two annual financial statement
audits in fiscal years 2022 and 2023, the Marine Corps did not issue audited
financial statements in fiscal year 2022 and instead underwent a single 2-
year audit for its fiscal year 2023 financial statements. According to DOD,
modifying the Marine Corps’ financial statement audits this way allowed the
Marine Corps to significantly invest more time in executing corrective actions
to address errors and inaccuracies in its financial data and records to allow
the auditor to test transactions and balances.
The Office of Management and Budget granted extensions for fiscal year
2023 and again in fiscal year 2024, which allowed auditors to move the
issuance dates of the final audit reports from November to February, and to
test year-end transactions and journal entries.
While the Marine Corps was able to achieve a clean audit opinion, auditors
identified seven material weaknesses that remain open. The Marine Corps still
needs to remediate its open material weaknesses by improving its IT and
financial operations, which are essential for implementing sustainable business
processes.
It is unclear how successfully the other large DOD component reporting entities
could employ this approach, with auditors using substantive testing procedures,
and not relying on controls. It may pose significant challenges for them to
successfully complete an audit. Specifically, the challenges include the following:
• Size. The Army, Navy, and Air Force are much larger and more complex
organizations than the Marine Corps. As of fiscal year 2024, Army, Navy, and
Air Force assets were 15 percent, 49 percent, and 23 percent, respectively,
of DOD’s total assets (excluding intragovernmental assets). The Marine
Corps’ assets were 2 percent.
• Volume of transactions. High volumes of transactions for the Army, Navy,
and Air Force could make it difficult to test transaction details and account
balances solely through substantive procedures. This would require the
services to provide sufficient, appropriate audit evidence for large sample
sizes, which would be time consuming for the services to gather and for the
IPAs to test in order to draw their audit conclusions.
Page 9 GAO-25-107427 DOD Financial Management


## Page 10

What will DOD need to DOD OIG reported that for DOD to receive a clean audit opinion, it will need to
do to receive a clean remediate many of the 28 material weaknesses that DOD OIG identified in fiscal
year 2024. Long-standing material weaknesses are significant roadblocks to
audit opinion by fiscal
DOD’s auditability goals and are preventing it from establishing an efficient and
year 2028?
effective financial management environment.20
Actions DOD needs to take to remediate its material weaknesses include the
following:
• Implement effective financial management systems and IT controls.
DOD’s business systems modernization efforts have been on GAO’s High-
Risk List since 1995. Also, the OIG has identified DOD’s financial
management systems and IT environment as material weaknesses in all
seven of its full DOD financial statement audits. In addition, as of fiscal year
2024, DOD OIG identified six IT-related material weaknesses, for which
auditors issued 1,127 IT NFRs.
DOD OIG reported that DOD’s plans to improve its system environment
allowed it to maintain too many outdated and noncompliant systems for far
too long. For example, DOD’s plans as of fiscal year 2023 were to operate
more than 100 financial management feeder systems beyond fiscal year
2028, including three significantly outdated accounting systems through fiscal
year 2031. The OIG concluded that DOD must reduce its reliance on
outdated systems that do not comply with federal requirements and
accounting standards. Otherwise, it will likely continue to struggle with
ensuring that its systems comply with law, which could continue to impede its
ability to achieve a clean audit opinion and increase its risk of making ill-
informed business decisions that directly affect its mission to ensure the
security of the United States.21
• Implement audit roadmaps. As noted earlier, DOD’s and the military
services’ audit roadmaps all aim to remediate their material weaknesses by
fiscal year 2028, except for DOD’s Financial Management Systems
Modernization material weakness (one of DOD’s IT-related material
weaknesses).
DOD must have its corrective actions for material weaknesses in place with
enough time for auditors to complete audit procedures before they may
render an audit opinion.22 DOD OIG noted that, DOD has historically required
about 2 years of targeted audit work and remediation effort to fully close
material weaknesses after DOD presented corrective actions and asserted
that the deficiencies had been resolved.
We reported that in fiscal year 2022, DOD consistently missed target
remediation dates provided in its roadmap, and DOD’s plans lacked detailed
procedures for addressing material weaknesses, which is important to
achieving a clean audit opinion. We also issued five recommendations
related to DOD taking steps to improve its audit roadmaps, including
considering dependencies that component reporting entities identified,
analyzing the feasibility of estimated target remediation dates, and
reassessing actions as needed.23 These recommendations are still open as
September 2025.
According to DOD officials, a remediation timeline generally encompasses
the period required for auditors to evaluate and test the effectiveness of
corrective actions. Therefore, the timelines noted are DOD’s current target
remediation dates for DOD OIG to close or downgrade the material
weaknesses after it evaluates and tests the effectiveness of DOD’s corrective
actions.
Page 10 GAO-25-107427 DOD Financial Management


## Page 11

Considering DOD’s path to producing reliable financial statements, OUSD(C)
officials noted that it is critical for DOD and the military services to consider the
risk that more material weaknesses may be identified as auditors test additional
areas. OUSD(C) officials stated that to mitigate this risk, DOD and the military
services have enhanced collaboration by fostering material weakness working
group sessions, conducting training, and holding governance meetings. These
activities are intended to address audit issues, share best practices for resolving
root causes, and improve audit remediation so that DOD could timely remediate
any new issues.
Agency Comments We provided a draft of this report to DOD for review and comment. DOD
provided technical comments, which we incorporated as appropriate.
How GAO Did This To describe financial statement audits and the major obstacles DOD has in
Study obtaining a clean audit opinion, we reviewed our past reports on the consolidated
financial statements of the U.S. government and DOD financial management. We
also reviewed past DOD OIG and military service IPA audit reports related to
DOD and the military services.
To describe DOD’s and the military services’ deficiencies and their effects on
DOD’s efforts to obtain a clean audit opinion, we reviewed fiscal year 2024 DOD
OIG and military service IPA audit documentation, audit contract deliverables,
and audit reports. We also interviewed DOD and DOD OIG officials to get the
fiscal year 2024 NFR and material weakness counts as well as obtain information
on DOD’s progress in remediating identified deficiencies.
To describe DOD OIG and military service IPA audit approaches, we reviewed
the OIG’s fiscal year 2024 fieldwork guide and the respective military service
IPAs’ contracts with the OIG.
To describe DOD’s and the military services’ remediation plans and how they
prioritized their fiscal year 2024 remediation efforts, we reviewed the law
mandating that DOD ensures it receives a clean audit opinion on its financial
statements by December 31, 2028. We reviewed DOD’s and the military
services’ fiscal years 2024 and 2023 AFRs. We reviewed the Secretary of
Defense's fiscal year 2024 financial statement audit priorities as well as DOD
OIG’s report for its fiscal year 2023 audit, Understanding the Results of the Audit
of the FY 2023 DOD Financial Statements, and its October 2024 presentation to
Congress on DOD’s material weaknesses.
In addition, we reviewed DOD’s and the military services’ 2023, 2024, and 2025
roadmaps as well as the detailed military service project plans. These included
milestones aimed to address the related NFRs for the material weaknesses we
selected to examine: access controls, configuration management, segregation of
duties, general property, plant, and equipment, Joint Strike Fighter Program,
government property in possession of contractors, inventory and stockpile
materials, and operating materials and supplies. Further, we conducted
interviews with officials from DOD, DOD OIG, the military services, and the
military services’ IPAs to obtain information on DOD’s and the military services’
remediation plans. We also attended and participated in status update meetings
for the audits, corrective action review meetings, and working group meetings
with DOD officials, DOD OIG officials, and IPA representatives.
We conducted this performance audit from February 2024 to September 2025 in
accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain sufficient,
appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our findings and
conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe that the evidence
Page 11 GAO-25-107427 DOD Financial Management


## Page 12

obtained provides a reasonable basis for our findings and conclusions based on
our audit objectives.
List of Addressees The Honorable Rand Paul, M.D.
Chairman
The Honorable Gary C. Peters
Ranking Member
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
United States Senate
The Honorable Roger Wicker
Chairman
The Honorable Jack Reed
Ranking Member
Committee on Armed Services
United States Senate
The Honorable James Comer
Chairman
The Honorable Robert Garcia
Ranking Member
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
House of Representatives
The Honorable Mike Rogers
Chairman
The Honorable Adam Smith
Ranking Member
Committee on Armed Services
House of Representatives
We are sending copies of this report to the appropriate congressional
committees, the Secretary of Defense, and other interested parties. In addition,
the report will be available at no charge on the GAO website at
https://www.gao.gov.
GAO Contact For more information, contact Asif A. Khan, Director, Financial Management and
Information Assurance, khana@gao.gov.
Sarah Kaczmarek, Managing Director, Public Affairs, Media@gao.gov.
A. Nicole Clowers, Managing Director, Congressional Relations,
CongRel@gao.gov.
Staff Acknowledgments: Sabur Ibrahim (Assistant Director), Heather
Rasmussen (Auditor in Charge), Crystal Alfred, Edgar Fletes, Richard Kusman,
Gail Luna, Keegan Maguigan, Phillip McIntyre, Edward Romesburg, Althea
Sprosta, Roger Stoltz, Vanessa Willis, and Steven Wright. Other contributors
include Tulsi Bhojwani, Giovanna Cruz, and Aaron Ruiz.
Connect with GAO on Facebook, X, LinkedIn, Instagram, and YouTube.
Subscribe to our Email Updates. Listen to our Podcasts.
Visit GAO on the web at https://www.gao.gov.
This is a work of the U.S. government but may include copyrighted material. For
details, see https://www.gao.gov/copyright.
Page 12 GAO-25-107427 DOD Financial Management


## Page 13

Appendix I: DOD’s and
Table 2: Fiscal Year 2024 New and Closed Notices of Findings and Recommendations (NFR)
the Military Services’
Reporting Total Total closed Total new Total reissued Combined total
Fiscal Year 2024 NFR entity beginning in fiscal year NFRs in fiscal NFRs in fiscal year NFRs issued in
balance 2024 year 2024 2024 fiscal year 2024
Counts
Agencywide 64 16 7 48 55
Army 679 231 149 439 588
Marine Corps 84 40 22 44 66
Navy 945 227 96 718 814
Air Force 441 143 119 324 443
Subtotal 2,213 657 393 1,573 1,966
Other DOD 1,064 295 174 772 946
Total 3,277 952 567 2,345 2,912
Source: GAO analysis of Department of Defense (DOD) information. | GAO-25-107427
Endnotes
131 U.S.C. § 3515, 31 U.S.C. § 3521(e), and 10 U.S.C. § 240a. A full audit of DOD’s consolidated
financial statements was first required for fiscal year 1996, under the Government Management
Reform Act of 1994 (GMRA), Pub. L. No. 103-356, § 405, 108 Stat. 3410, 3415. However, the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002, Pub. L. No. 107-107, § 1008, 115 Stat.
1012, 1204 (2001), limited the audit procedures to be performed on statements that DOD has
determined to be unreliable. This limitation was repealed in 2017. National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2018, Pub. L. No, 115-91, § 1003(h), 131 Stat. 1283, 1542 (2017).
231 U.S.C. § 3521(e).
3A DOD component is a military department, defense agency, DOD field activity, a combatant
command, or other organizational entity within DOD.
4The military services are the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Space Force. However,
the Space Force does not currently have a stand-alone audit, so it is outside the scope of this
engagement.
5GMRA, added a requirement for financial statements covering the executive branch of the federal
government, beginning with fiscal year 1997, to be prepared by the Secretary of the Treasury, in
coordination with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and audited by GAO. See
31 U.S.C. § 331(e).
6GAO, DOD Financial Management: Additional Actions Needed to Achieve a Clean Audit Opinion
on DOD’s Financial Statements, GAO-23-105784 (Washington, D.C.: May 15, 2023).
7Department of Defense, Office of Inspector General, Part 2. Understanding the Results of the
Audit of the FY 2024 DOD Financial Statements (Alexandria, Va.: June 17, 2025).
8GAO, Financial Management: DOD Has Identified Benefits of Financial Statement Audits and
Could Expand Its Monitoring, GAO-24-106890 (Washington, D.C.: Sept. 24, 2024).
9GAO-23-105784.
10Department of Defense, Office of Inspector General, Understanding the Results of the Audit of
the FY 2023 DOD Financial Statements (Alexandria, Va.: Aug. 8, 2024).
11Per OUSD(C) officials, the NFR closure rate is the percentage of NFRs closed out of the total
NFRs issued at a given time.
12According to OUSD(C) officials, DOD OIG does not currently identify agencywide NFRs as critical
or noncritical. However, OUSD(C) identifies corrective actions for the remediation of some of its
material weaknesses as critical.
13Per DOD OIG, the reported NFR counts associated with DOD’s fiscal year 2024 financial
statements did not include NFRs issued to the Defense Security Cooperation Agency - Security
Assistance Accounts, DOD OIG financial management, or NFRs resulting from audits that the DOD
OIG did not oversee.
14Per OUSD(C) officials, not all NFRs are prepared consistently. OUSD(C) noted that some NFRs
report a single deficiency, while others may report multiple deficiencies. Some NFRs have different
levels of detail from others, as they are prepared by different IPA firms. Thus, the number of NFRs
closed or remaining may not be indicative of how much progress has been made to resolve DOD’s
associated material weakness. However, it does show if DOD is making progress resolving its
individual NFRs.
15The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024, Pub. L. No. 118–31, § 1005, 137
STAT. 136, 379 (2023), reprinted at 10 U.S.C. § 240a note, mandates that the Secretary of
Defense ensure that DOD receives a clean audit opinion on the financial statements of the
department by not later than December 31, 2028.
Page 13 GAO-25-107427 DOD Financial Management


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Subtotal | 2,213 | 657 | 393 | 1,573 | 1,966 |

#### Table 2

| Total | 3,277 | 952 | 567 | 2,345 | 2,912 |

## Page 14

16For DOD’s target remediation date comparison, we compared the dates noted in its fiscal year
2024 AFR with the fiscal year 2023 roadmap. As noted earlier, DOD’s fiscal year 2024 AFR
contained updated fiscal year 2024 target remediation dates for its material weaknesses compared
with its August 2024 roadmap.
17For the Navy’s target remediation date comparison, we compared the Navy’s fiscal year 2024
AFR to its fiscal year 2023 AFR. As noted earlier, the Navy’s audit roadmaps did not include all of
its IPA-identified material weaknesses or their target remediation dates.
18Department of Defense, Office of Inspector General, Understanding the Results of the Audit of
the FY 2023 DOD Financial Statements.
19A legacy general ledger system is an agency’s core financial management system that has
become outdated or obsolete. The general ledger is the highest level of financial summarization for
an agency and maintains account balances. DAI is intended to serve as an enterprise resource
planning system, which is an automated system using commercially available, off-the-shelf (i.e.,
without significant modifications) software. DAI consists of multiple, integrated functional modules
that perform a variety of business-related tasks, such as general ledger accounting, payroll, and
supply chain management. DAI is also intended to help address audit findings and meet financial
and regulatory standards.
20Subsequent to the fiscal year 2024 audit, Navy working capital fund and Air Force officials stated
in August 2025 that they changed their strategies to accelerate progress toward a clean audit
opinion before DOD’s 2028 statutory mandate. The Navy working capital fund and the Air Force
noted changing their audit strategies from focusing on remediating their material weaknesses to
substantiating transactions, account balances, and other adjustments. The Navy further added that
it will apply a 2-year audit cycle for its working capital fund.
21Department of Defense, Office of Inspector General, Understanding the Results of the Audit of
the FY 2023 DOD Financial Statements, and Department of Defense, United States Department of
Defense Agency Financial Report for Fiscal Year 2024 (Arlington, Va.: Nov. 15, 2024).
22Department of Defense, Office of Inspector General, Agency-wide Material Weaknesses
Presentation to the Under Secretary of Defense Comptroller/Chief Financial Officer (Alexandria,
Va.: October 2024).
23GAO-23-105784.
Page 14 GAO-25-107427 DOD Financial Management

