---
title: "GAO-08-587T"
processed_date: "2025-09-17T11:01:52.410705"
source_file: "GAO-08-587T.pdf"
conversion_method: "pdfplumber"
---

# Document Metadata

- **ModDate**: D:20080314121224-04'00'
- **CreationDate**: D:20080313120000-04'00'
- **Title**: GAO-08-587T "The Government Accountability Office (GAO) Act of 2007" (H.R. 3268), and Other GAO Reforms
- **Author**: U.S. Government Accountability Office, http://www.gao.gov

---

## Page 1

United States Government Accountability Office
GAO Testimony
Before the Subcommittee on Federal
Workforce, Postal Service, and the District of
Columbia, Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform, House of Representatives
For Release on Delivery “The Government
Expected at 2:00 p.m. EST
Thursday, March 13, 2008
Accountability Office
(GAO) Act of 2007”
(H.R. 3268), and Other
GAO Reforms
Statement of Shirley A. Jones, Esq.,
Employee Advisory Council (EAC)
Attorneys Representative
GAO-08-587T


### Tables

#### Table 1

| For Release on Delivery |
| Expected at 2:00 p.m. EST |
| Thursday, March 13, 2008 |

## Page 2

Mr. Chairman and Members of the Subcommittee:
I am pleased to be here today at your hearing on H.R. 3268, the
“Government Accountability Office (GAO) Act of 2007” and other GAO
reforms, to discuss the results of the survey that you previously requested
that the Employee Advisory Council (EAC) conduct of all GAO employees
(except Senior Executive Service/SL and interns) on GAO’s Band II
restructuring and the Watson Wyatt market-based compensation study
used to set salary ranges. My name is Shirley Jones and I am an Assistant
General Counsel at GAO. For the last four years I have served as the
Attorneys Representative to the EAC. Since your hearing last May, I have
worked with the EAC committee that conducted the survey. I am here
today to share the results of that survey with you.
Overview of EAC The EAC was established by Comptroller General David Walker to provide
a consolidated forum for him to meet with representatives from the
Creation and Purpose
various employee liaison groups (e.g. Advisory Council for Persons with
Disabilities, Blacks In Government, Gay and Lesbian Employee
Association, etc.) so that these groups could voice the concerns of their
constituency groups. He also decided to include representatives from each
of the staff positions (i.e. Administrative Professional Support Staff
(APSS), attorneys, and each of the Band levels). Consequently, the EAC
was chartered in January 2000 to serve as an advisory body to the
Comptroller General and other senior executives by seeking and
conveying the views and concerns of the individual employee groups they
represent, proposing solutions to those concerns where appropriate,
providing input by assessing and commenting on GAO policies,
procedures, plans and practices, and communicating issues and concerns
of the CG and senior managers to employees.
Survey Background Five EAC members volunteered to conduct the survey that you requested.
In addition to myself, the committee consisted of Betsy Morris, Senior
Analyst, Defense Capabilities and Management, Beverly Ross, Senior IT
Specialist/Data Analyst, Applied Research and Methods, Nellie Shamlin,
Executive Assistant, Professional Development Program, and Shana
Wallace, Assistant Director, Applied Research and Methods. We received
assistance from a survey specialist, Luann Moy, an Assistant Director from
our Applied Research and Methods group.
Upon completion of our preliminary survey development work, the survey
was pre-tested among a small number of employees representing the
Page 1 GAO-08-587T


## Page 3

different Band levels and positions in the agency, and representing both
headquarters and field staff. A draft of the survey instrument was provided
to the Chairman’s staff for comment. A courtesy copy was given to the
Comptroller General and the attorney representing the IFPTE.
The finalized survey was ultimately launched on Thursday, November 15,
2007. The survey was closed on Friday, December 14, 2007. Your staff was
briefed on the results on January 15, 2008 and March 5, 2008.
Overall Survey The survey was sent to all GAO employees except Senior Executive
Service/SL and interns (a total of 3,002 employees). 71% of eligible
Response Rate
employees participated in the survey.
To provide a picture of those responding to the survey, respondents were
asked demographic questions regarding their position, years at GAO, age,
race, ethnicity, sex, and location (headquarters or field). As is normally the
case, some respondents chose not to answer some or all of the
demographic questions.
The highest area of nonresponse to the demographic questions was in the
answer to the question about race identification, which was not answered
by 253 or 12% of the respondents. The highest nonresponse was from
Asian employees (the number who responded and identified themselves as
Asian represents only 40% of those eligible) and African Americans (the
number who responded and identified themselves as African American
represents only 49% of those eligible). Because of the lower response rate
for these two races, the EAC survey committee noted its concerns with
presenting comparisons by race and with the possible under-
representation of the views of those two groups in particular.
Analysis of Close- Several survey questions asked employees about the Watson Wyatt
market-based compensation study and specifically about staff
Ended Survey
involvement, input and transparency. Specifically, respondents who were
Questions at GAO prior to January 1, 2006, were asked if they were involved in
several different types of activities conducted by Watson Wyatt and GAO
during the study. These activities included focus groups, interviews,
meetings with team management, and CG chats.
Of those respondents who were at GAO prior to that date (83% of
respondents), 30% could not recall if they received communications from
management advising that Watson Wyatt would be conducting focus
Page 2 GAO-08-587T


## Page 4

groups. Of those who recalled whether they participated in focus groups,
more APSS than analyst staff reported participating. Specifically, 19% of
APSS staff reported participating, while only 4% of analysts and 8% of
attorneys reported participating.
Only 4% of all respondents at GAO prior to that date reported being
interviewed by Watson Wyatt. More APSS than other staff reported being
interviewed (21%). Of particular note, no Band I or Band II respondents
reported being interviewed by Watson Wyatt. However, in comparison to
the 4% that reported being interviewed by Watson Wyatt, 21% of
respondents reported having attended briefings conducted by Watson
Wyatt.
A higher number of staff who were at GAO prior to that date, 94%,
reported that they listened to CG Chats or attended town hall meetings.
13% also reported asking a question or making a comment to the CG about
the transition outside of meetings.
53% of respondents reported little or no opportunity to provide input to
management on the transition to market-based pay. A higher percentage of
respondents who identified themselves as Hispanic (67%) or African
American (66%) as compared to other racial groups reported that they had
little or no opportunity to provide input into the transition.1
81% of respondents reported that they felt they were only slightly involved
or not at all involved in providing input to management on the transition to
market-based pay. Similarly, 81% of respondents also felt that employee
input on the transition was ultimately only slightly or not at all considered.
42% responded that employee input was not at all considered.
57% of all respondents at GAO prior to January 2006 felt the level of
transparency of the Watson Wyatt study to be very or somewhat
unreasonable. Similarly, 58% also felt that the level of transparency of the
GAO decision-making process was somewhat or very unreasonable.
Generally, the more years of service a respondent had at GAO, the more
likely he or she was to report feeling the GAO decision-making process
was somewhat or very unreasonable. 75% of respondents with over 20
1As noted earlier, because of the lower response rate for Asians and African Americans, the
EAC survey committee noted its concerns with presenting comparisons by race and with
the possible under-representation of the views of those two groups in particular.
Page 3 GAO-08-587T


## Page 5

years of service felt this way compared to 55% or respondents with 2 years
or less.
46% of survey respondents felt generally dissatisfied or very dissatisfied
with GAO’s market-based pay system compared to 34% of survey
respondents who were generally or very satisfied. 20% of respondents
reported that they were neither satisfied nor dissatisfied.
There were notable differences in dissatisfaction level based on position,
age, and race. Band IIAs and Band IIBs reported being more dissatisfied
than Band I and Band III analysts, APSS, and attorneys. A higher
percentage of respondents age 40 and over (59%) than under 40 (25%)
reported feeling generally or very dissatisfied with the market-based pay
system. African Americans also had higher percentages of respondents
(64%) than other racial groups who said they were generally or very
dissatisfied with GAO’s market-based pay system than those in other racial
groups.
With regard to the effect of the transition to market-based pay on overall
morale, 81% of respondents thought morale in general was worse or much
worse now than before the transition to market based pay. 48% responded
that their own morale was worse or much worse now. A higher percentage
of respondents age 40 and over than respondents under 40 reported that
their morale and productivity are worse or much worse than before the
transition. A higher percentage of African Americans than other racial
groups reported that their morale was worse or much worse (58%).
Regarding the Band II Restructuring (i.e. the restructuring of Band II into a
Band IIA and Band IIB with IIB having a higher salary range), 54% of
respondents disagreed or strongly disagreed with the Band II analyst and
analyst-related restructuring, while 29% agreed or strongly agreed. Certain
demographics disagreed or strongly disagreed at a higher rate - African
Americans (67%), Band IIA (67%), those at GAO 10 years or longer (66%),
and employees 40 years or older (65%).
Regarding specific outcomes of the Band II restructuring, 55% of
respondents disagreed or strongly disagreed that the restructuring rewards
workers more equitably, while 31% agreed or strongly agreed. Similarly,
67% disagreed or strongly disagreed that the restructuring enhances
productivity while 13% agreed or strongly agreed.
Conversely, a slight majority (52%) of respondents agreed or strongly
agreed that Band IIB staff lead more complex jobs. These results varied
Page 4 GAO-08-587T


## Page 6

widely by Band level – 34% of Band IIAs agreed or strongly agreed while
Band IIBs and Band IIIs agreed or strongly agreed at a much higher rate
(69% and 71% respectively).
Regarding the current general climate at GAO, 40% of respondents said
that their own level of morale related to working at GAO was high or very
high. 36% said their level of morale was moderate, while 24% said it was
low or very low.
There were notable differences in responses regarding general climate at
GAO based on position, age, and years of service. Among the different
positions at GAO, Band IIA analysts had the lowest percentage responding
that their morale was high or very high (30%) while attorneys had the
highest percentage (60%). 53% of respondents under 40 years old reported
high or very high levels compared to 32% of respondents who were age 40
or older. Staff with less than 10 years at GAO (50%) reported higher levels
of morale than respondents with 10 or more years at GAO (only 30%).
45% of respondents reported feeling that their professional contributions
at GAO were valued to a high degree. 33% said that their contributions
were moderately valued, and 22% said their contributions were valued to a
low or very low degree. Lower percentages of Band IIA analyst and APSS
(33% and 38% respectively) felt their contributions were highly or very
highly valued compared to attorneys and Band III staff (67% and 63%
respectively).
The more years of service respondents had at GAO, the less likely they
were to report that they felt their contributions were highly or very highly
valued. A lower percentage of respondents with 10 or more years of
service (37%) than respondents with under 10 years of service (54%) felt
that their contributions were highly valued. Similarly, a lower percentage
of respondents age 40 and older (38%) than respondents under 40 (59%)
felt that their contributions were highly valued.
A lower percentage of African Americans compared to other race groups
felt that their contributions were highly valued. 27% of African Americans
responded that their contributions were highly or very highly valued
compared to 51% of White staff.
Page 5 GAO-08-587T


## Page 7

Methodology for To give respondents an opportunity to provide additional thoughts or
concerns, we include an open-ended question which read “What other
Content Analysis of
comments or thoughts would you like to provide to the House
Open-Ended Survey Subcommittee about the Watson Wyatt study, Band II restructuring,
market-based pay system, the GAO performance management system or
Question
GAO work life, in general?” 1113 respondents provided substantive
comments to this question.
To classify the nature of the comments, we created 29 categories to use as
codes. Two survey committee members independently coded every
comment, and then discussed comments where there were any differences
in coding until 100% agreement was reached. Some comments were coded
into more than one category since some respondents discussed more than
one topic.
Analysis of Open- The comments to the open-ended question cannot be generalized to the
entire GAO employee population. They do, however, provide some
Ended Survey
insights into why some respondents answered close-ended survey
Question questions as they did.
Our content analysis of respondents’ comments showed the top specific
areas of concern expressed as the Band II restructuring being damaging to
employee morale or otherwise providing disincentives (217 comments),
the Pay For Performance (PFP) system being damaging to employee
morale or otherwise providing disincentives (133), PFP ratings not being
accurate (108), GAO employees not receiving the same COLA as
employees at Federal executive branch agencies (107), and the Watson
Wyatt study being flawed or fraudulent (84). (The other two categories
among the top seven most common comments were “other” less specific
consolidated comments.)
Although not generalizeable to the overall GAO population, we noted that
more than twice as many respondents commented that the Band II
restructuring was damaging to employee morale or otherwise provided
disincentives than those that responded that it was the right thing to do.
Specifically, in contrast to the 217 comments noted above from
respondents that said that the Band II restructuring at GAO is damaging to
employee morale or otherwise provides disincentives, 74 of the narrative
comments said the Band II restructuring was the right thing to do. Some
other comments expressed agreement with the Band II restructuring in
concept but didn’t believe it was working (74). Some comments also noted
concern with the lack of transparency in the Band II restructuring (47).
Page 6 GAO-08-587T


## Page 8

Some respondents also noted their belief that the Band II restructuring
should have included “grandfathering” provisions for staff already within
Band II at the beginning of the process (31).
While 133 respondents commented that GAO’s Pay For Performance
(PFP) system is damaging to employee morale or otherwise provides
disincentives, 80 respondents said that they believe that PFP at GAO is
helpful or worthwhile. Similarly, 108 respondents specifically noted their
belief that PFP ratings are inaccurate. Some others agreed with PFP in
concept but didn’t believe it was working here at GAO (48). Some
respondents also noted their concern with the lack of transparency in the
PFP system at GAO (69). A smaller number of respondents specifically
noted their belief that the PFP system is flawed, fraudulent or unethical
(45).
Cost of living adjustments (COLAs) were also a consistent theme within
the narrative responses. As noted earlier, 107 respondents specifically
noted their belief that GAO employees should receive the same COLA as
employees at Federal executive branch agencies.
Compared to the 84 narrative comments that noted concerns with the
Watson Wyatt study being flawed or fraudulent, 6 narrative comments
specifically noted belief that the Watson Wyatt study was correct. Some
respondents’ comments also noted concerns about the lack of
transparency with the Watson Wyatt study (73).
Some narrative comments conveyed positive thoughts including the belief
that the Comptroller General should be given credit for moving the agency
in the right direction (30) and that GAO has excellent benefits (32). Other
generally positive comments (44) that did not fit into one of the more
specific categories so were coded as “Other-Positive” included beliefs that
GAO’s Professional Development Program (PDP) is a very good one and
that GAO’s work is cutting edge.
Staff also used the narrative comments, however, to express their belief
that the changes at GAO were going to happen anyway regardless of staff
input (64). Other negative comments included concerns with GAO losing
talented staff because of recent changes (74), GAO’s overall processes
being discriminatory (54), lack of trust overall (45), and locality pay
decisions being flawed (27).
The count of combined negative comments that did not fit into the more
specific categories and that were captured as “Other-Negative” had the
Page 7 GAO-08-587T


## Page 9

highest overall category count (426). This category captured a variety of
negative comments such as promoting Band I staff to IIA faster results in
less qualified staff at higher levels, GAO should deal with the real problem
– poor performance, concerns about the lack of domestic partner benefits,
and concerns about the treatment of communications analyst positions
under the Band II restructuring.
Conclusion In general, Band IIA staff reported more unfavorable responses to many of
the topics covered in this survey (Band II restructuring, the Watson Wyatt
studies –analyst and APSS, market-based pay, and overall GAO climate)
than staff in other bands and positions. African American staff, older staff,
and staff with more years at GAO, also had generally less favorable
opinions of these topics. There were few differences of opinion between
male and female staff, and headquarters and field staff about these topics.
Respondents used the open-ended question that we included to further
highlight their concerns regarding these topics as well as to express their
continued belief in the work of the agency. While the narrative comments
can not be generalized to the overall GAO population, they did provide
insightful and thoughtful feedback for consideration.
Page 8 GAO-08-587T
(844328)


## Page 10

This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the
United States. It may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without further
permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain copyrighted images or
other material, permission from the copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to
reproduce this material separately.


## Page 11

GAO’s Mission The Government Accountability Office, the audit, evaluation, and
investigative arm of Congress, exists to support Congress in meeting its
constitutional responsibilities and to help improve the performance and
accountability of the federal government for the American people. GAO
examines the use of public funds; evaluates federal programs and policies;
and provides analyses, recommendations, and other assistance to help
Congress make informed oversight, policy, and funding decisions. GAO’s
commitment to good government is reflected in its core values of
accountability, integrity, and reliability.
Obtaining Copies of The fastest and easiest way to obtain copies of GAO documents at no cost
is through GAO’s Web site (www.gao.gov). Each weekday, GAO posts
GAO Reports and
newly released reports, testimony, and correspondence on its Web site. To
Testimony have GAO e-mail you a list of newly posted products every afternoon, go
to www.gao.gov and select “E-mail Updates.”
Order by Mail or Phone The first copy of each printed report is free. Additional copies are $2 each.
A check or money order should be made out to the Superintendent of
Documents. GAO also accepts VISA and Mastercard. Orders for 100 or
more copies mailed to a single address are discounted 25 percent. Orders
should be sent to:
U.S. Government Accountability Office
441 G Street NW, Room LM
Washington, DC 20548
To order by Phone: Voice: (202) 512-6000
TDD: (202) 512-2537
Fax: (202) 512-6061
To Report Fraud, Contact:
Waste, and Abuse in Web site: www.gao.gov/fraudnet/fraudnet.htm
E-mail: fraudnet@gao.gov
Federal Programs
Automated answering system: (800) 424-5454 or (202) 512-7470
Congressional Ralph Dawn, Managing Director, dawnr@gao.gov, (202) 512-4400
U.S. Government Accountability Office, 441 G Street NW, Room 7125
Relations
Washington, DC 20548
Public Affairs Chuck Young, Managing Director, youngc1@gao.gov, (202) 512-4800
U.S. Government Accountability Office, 441 G Street NW, Room 7149
Washington, DC 20548
PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER

