---
title: "gao-25-107561"
processed_date: "2025-09-17T11:27:30.170386"
source_file: "gao-25-107561.pdf"
conversion_method: "pdfplumber"
---

# Document Metadata

- **Author**: U.S. Government Accountability Office, http://www.gao.gov
- **Company**: GAO
- **ContentTypeId**: 0x010100601E3C5A7646D24EB86DB2A4A3B965C1
- **CreationDate**: D:20250904075106-04'00'
- **Creator**: Acrobat PDFMaker 25 for Word
- **Keywords**: Cover Testimony takeout removed
- **ModDate**: D:20250905145152-04'00'
- **Producer**: Adobe PDF Library 25.1.143
- **SourceModified**: D:20250904115031
- **Title**: GAO-25-107561, FINANCIAL LITERACY AND SMALL BUSINESS LENDING: Resources Available to Military-Affiliated People
- **_dlc_DocIdItemGuid**: a22b9e03-3e5a-4a43-b39b-75c27da9a70e

---

## Page 1

United States Government Accountability Office
Report to Congressional Requestors
September 2025
FINANCIAL
LITERACY AND
SMALL BUSINESS
LENDING
Resources Available
to Military-Affiliated
People
GAO-25-107561


### Tables

#### Table 1

| September 2025 |
|  |

#### Table 2

| GAO-25-107561 |  |

## Page 2

FINANCIAL LITERACY AND SMALL BUSINESS
LENDING
Highlights
Resources Available to Military-Affiliated People
GAO-25-107561 September 2025
A report to congressional requesters.
For more information, contact: Courtney LaFountain at lafountainc@gao.gov.
What GAO Found Why GAO Did This Study
Military-affiliated people—including active-duty service members, reservists, Military-affiliated people play a vital role
transitioning service members, veterans, and military and veteran spouses—may in the nation’s economy, including
face challenges building credit and accessing capital to fund their small through veteran-owned businesses.
businesses. For example, veterans who relocate to a new area after military According to the Census Bureau’s 2023
service can have difficulty establishing credit and developing business Annual Business Survey, veteran-
owned businesses had an estimated
relationships. Officials told us military-affiliated people may also face limited
$884.5 billion in receipts, 3.2 million
access to mentors and professional networks that can help their businesses.
employees, and $179.7 billion in annual
Military-affiliated people can access financial literacy programs and resources payroll in 2022.
through federal agencies including the Department of Defense (DOD), the
GAO was asked to review financial
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and the Small Business Administration
literacy and lending resources for
(SBA). These resources provide help with managing personal or business
military-affiliated people. This report
finances, and tips for avoiding fraud and scams.
examines (1) challenges military-
affiliated people may face in building
Federal Financial Literacy Programs and Resources Targeted to Military-Affiliated
credit or accessing capital to fund their
People or Small Business Owners
small businesses, (2) federal financial
literacy resources available to them, (3)
sources of capital available to them,
and (4) agency efforts to raise
awareness among this population about
financial literacy and lending programs.
GAO interviewed or received written
comments from nine agencies,
including SBA, VA, and DOD, selected
based on prior work, or because they
serve the military community. GAO
analyzed participation and usage data
for financial literacy programs for fiscal
Military-affiliated people can access capital for small businesses through various years 2019–2023. GAO reviewed
private funding sources and federal lending programs. Private sources include national small business survey data
self-funding, investors, and business loans. However, according to self-reported from the Census Bureau for 2023 and
the Federal Reserve Banks for 2024,
responses in the 2024 Small Business Credit Survey, veteran business owners
the most recent available. GAO also
reported facing challenges obtaining financing from large banks, such as high
reviewed small business lending data
interest rates and difficult application processes. Federal lending options include
from SBA and Department of
SBA’s 7(a) program and Department of Agriculture loans for agricultural
Agriculture for 2019–2024, the most
businesses. SBA lending to veteran-owned businesses generally increased from
recent available. In addition, GAO
fiscal year 2019 through fiscal year 2024.
interviewed or received written
Federal agencies raise awareness of financial literacy and lending programs for comments from representatives of four
military-affiliated people through in-person and virtual presentations, networking nonprofit organizations and five
financial services firms, selected for
events, and the use of social media and websites. For example, SBA’s Office of
their work with military-affiliated people
Veterans Business Development conducted more than 100 presentations
and their businesses.
annually in fiscal years 2023 and 2024. Agencies such as SBA and DOD have
online tools, including program-specific webpages, to improve access to financial
education and loan information.
United States Government Accountability Office


### Tables

#### Table 1

|  | FINANCIAL LITERACY AND SMALL BUSINESS
LENDING
Resources Available to Military-Affiliated People |
| Highlights |  |
|  |  |
|  | September 2025 |
| GAO-25-107561 |  |
|  |  |

#### Table 2

| FINANCIAL LITERACY AND SMALL BUSINESS |
| LENDING |
| Resources Available to Military-Affiliated People |

## Page 3

Contents
Letter 1
Background 4
Frequent Moves, Limited Networks, and Other Factors Can Hinder
Military-Affiliated People’s Access to Credit and Capital 9
Federal Agencies Offer Resources to Help Military-Affiliated
People with Financial Decision-Making 12
Military-Affiliated Business Owners Rely on Self-Funding,
Investors, and Business Loans for Capital 15
Agency Outreach Includes Presentations, Networking, and Online
Tools 22
Agency Comments 23
Appendix I Objectives, Scope, and Methodology 25
Appendix II Participation and Usage of Selected Federal Financial Literacy
Programs and Resources 29
Appendix III Data on 7(a), 504, and Microloan Programs, Fiscal Years 2019–2024 37
Appendix IV Data on USDA Farm Service Agency Program Loans, Fiscal Years
2019–2024 43
Appendix V Comments from the National Credit Union Administration 47
Appendix VI Comments from the Department of Veterans Affairs 48
Appendix VII GAO Contact and Staff Acknowledgments 50
Page i Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 4

Tables
Table 1: SBA Lending Programs Available to Small Businesses 5
Table 2: USDA’s Farm Service Agency Lending Programs
Available to Small Businesses 7
Table 3: USDA’s Rural Development Lending Programs Available
to Small Businesses 8
Table 4: Reported Challenges Obtaining Financing from Large
Banks, by Veteran Ownership Status, 2024 17
Table 5: Number and Percentage of Loans Provided to Veterans
for Three SBA Loan Programs, Fiscal Years 2019–2024 19
Table 6: Average SBA Loan Amounts Approved by Veteran
Status, Fiscal Years 2019–2024 20
Table 7: Number and Percentage of Applications Approved for
Veterans for Five Farm Service Agency Programs, Fiscal
Years 2019–2024 21
Table 8: Average Loan Amounts Approved by Veteran Status,
USDA Farm Service Agency Loan Programs, Fiscal Years
2019–2024 22
Table 9: Number of Participants in USDA Farm Service Agency
Training Classes, Fiscal Years 2019–2023 29
Table 10: Number of Participants in DOD Office of Financial
Readiness Personal Financial Counseling Program, Fiscal
Years 2020–2023 30
Table 11: Number of Website Sessions and Users for MilSpouse
Money Mission, 2021–2023 30
Table 12: Number of Participants in the DOD Transition
Assistance Program, Calendar Years 2020–2023 31
Table 13: DOD Transition Assistance Program Customer
Satisfaction Survey Results, Percentage of Respondents
Who Agreed or Strongly Agreed with Each Question,
Fiscal Year 2019–2022 31
Table 14: Number of Coaching Sessions for the DOD Spouse
Education and Career Opportunities Program, Fiscal
Years 2019–2023 32
Table 15: Number of Events and Attendees, Boots to Business
Program, Fiscal Years 2019–2023 33
Table 16: Number of Events and Attendees, Boots to Business
Reboot Program, Fiscal Years 2019–2023 34
Table 17: Number of Events and Attendees, Boots to Business
Revenue Readiness Program, Fiscal Years 2019–2023 34
Page ii Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 5

Figures
Figure 1: Federal Financial Literacy Programs and Resources
Targeted to Military-Affiliated People or Small Business
Owners 13
Figure 2: Examples of Private Capital Sources for Small Business
Owners 15
Figure 3: Proportion of Financing Received by Veteran- and Non-
Veteran-Owned Businesses, 2024 18
Figure 4: Number and Amount of 7(a) Loans to Veterans and
Nonveterans, Fiscal Years 2019–2024 37
Figure 5: Average Loan Amount of 7(a) Loans by Veteran Status,
Fiscal Years 2019–2024 38
Figure 6: Number and Amount of 504 Loans to Veterans and
Nonveterans, Fiscal Years 2019–2024 39
Figure 7: Average Loan Amount of 504 Loans by Veteran Status,
Fiscal Years 2019–2024 40
Figure 8: Number and Amount of Microloans to Veterans and
Nonveterans, Fiscal Years 2019–2024 41
Figure 9: Average Loan Amount of Microloans by Veteran Status,
Fiscal Years 2019–2024 42
Figure 10: Number and Amount of Direct Farm Operating Loans to
Veterans and Nonveterans, Fiscal Years 2019–2024 43
Figure 11: Number and Amount of Guaranteed Farm Operating
Loans to Veterans and Nonveterans, Fiscal Years 2019–
2024 44
Figure 12: Number and Amount of Direct Farm Ownership Loans
to Veterans and Nonveterans, Fiscal Years 2019–2024 45
Figure 13: Number and Amount of Guaranteed Farm Ownership
Loans to Veterans and Nonveterans, Fiscal Years 2019–
2024 46
Page iii Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 6

Abbreviations
CFPB Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
DOD Department of Defense
SBA Small Business Administration
USDA U.S. Department of Agriculture
VA Department of Veterans Affairs
This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the
United States. The published product may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety
without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain
copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be
necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately.
Page iv Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 7

Letter
441 G St. N.W.
Washington, DC 20548
September 10, 2025
The Honorable Joni K. Ernst
Chair
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship
United States Senate
The Honorable Jeanne Shaheen
United States Senate
Small businesses owned by active-duty service members, reservists,
those transitioning from service, veterans, and military and veteran
spouses—collectively referred to as military-affiliated people—are an
important part of the nation’s economy. In 2022, veteran-owned
businesses generated an estimated $884.5 billion in receipts and
employed roughly 3.2 million people, according to a Census Bureau
survey.1 However, military-affiliated people may face challenges in
building credit and accessing capital, which can negatively affect their
ability to start a small business. Research suggests that veterans have a
harder time establishing credit and developing business relationships,
particularly after relocating to a new area after military service.2
The federal government supports military-affiliated people in building
credit and starting, growing, or expanding businesses through a variety of
resources, including financial literacy and lending programs. Agencies
including the Department of Defense (DOD), Department of Veterans
1This estimate is from the 2023 Annual Business Survey, conducted jointly by the Census
Bureau and the National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics within the National
Science Foundation. The survey covers only employer firms and defines veteran-owned
businesses as those at least 51 percent owned and controlled by veterans or their
dependents. According to the survey, veteran-owned businesses had an estimated $179.7
billion in annual payroll. About 4.6 percent of nonemployer businesses were veteran-
owned, according to data from the Census Bureau’s 2022 Nonemployer Statistics by
Demographics series. According to estimates from the survey and the series data, there
were about 1.4 million nonemployer veteran businesses in 2022.
2See Nyasha Y. Boldon and Rosalinda V. Maury, Bridging the Gap: Motivations,
Challenges, and Successes of Veteran Entrepreneurs (Syracuse, N.Y.: Syracuse
University Institute for Veterans and Military Families, Nov. 2017); Federal Reserve Bank
of New York and Small Business Administration, Financing Their Future: Veteran
Entrepreneurs and Capital Access (Nov. 2018); and Rosalinda Maury, Brice Stone, and
Kicia Sears, Veteran Entrepreneurship: Access to Capital Challenges and Opportunities
(Syracuse, N.Y.: Syracuse University Institute for Veterans and Military Families, 2019).
Page 1 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 8

Affairs (VA), and Small Business Administration (SBA) offer counseling to
help military-affiliated people make informed financial decisions.
You asked us to review federal efforts to assist military-affiliated people in
accessing capital and provide them with financial literacy education. This
report examines (1) any challenges that military-affiliated people may face
in building credit or accessing capital for their small businesses, (2)
federal financial literacy resources available to military-affiliated people,
(3) sources of capital available to military-affiliated people, and (4) agency
efforts to raise their awareness about financial literacy and lending
programs.
For this report, we focused on federal financial literacy resources and
lending programs available to, or specifically designed for, military-
affiliated people at nine agencies: SBA, DOD, VA, Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau (CFPB), U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA),
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Federal Trade Commission,
National Credit Union Administration, and Securities and Exchange
Commission. We selected SBA based on our prior work on veteran
lending.3 We selected the other agencies based on our prior work on
financial literacy programs, based on interviews with other agencies in our
scope, or because their mission includes services for military-affiliated
people.4
For the first objective, we interviewed or received written comments from
representatives of four nonprofit organizations that support military-
affiliated small business owners, as well as five financial services firms or
associations with initiatives targeting this population. We identified these
organizations from our prior work, our interviews, or because they serve
the military community. The views expressed by those we interviewed
cannot be generalized to all such entities. For more information on our
scope and methodology, see appendix I.
3GAO, Small Business Administration: Procedures for Reporting on Veteran-Owned
Businesses Need Improvement, GAO-24-106071 (Washington, D.C.: Dec. 21, 2023).
4GAO, Financial Literacy: Overlap of Programs Suggests There May Be Opportunities for
Consolidation, GAO-12-588 (Washington, D.C.: July 23, 2012); and Financial Literacy:
Better Outcome Reporting Could Facilitate Oversight of Programs for Older Adults and
People with Disabilities, GAO-24-106381 (Washington, D.C.: Apr. 24, 2024).
Page 2 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 9

For the second objective, we reviewed our prior relevant work on federal
financial literacy programs.5 We also conducted interviews or received
written responses from representatives of the nine agencies we selected
for information on their financial literacy programs, including participant
data from 2019 through 2023. Appendix II provides more information
about federal financial literacy programs.
For the third objective, we reviewed SBA’s website and the Federal
Reserve Banks’ Small Business Credit Survey questionnaire and
conducted interviews to identify private sources of capital. We analyzed
data from the Federal Reserve’s 2022 Survey of Consumer Finances to
examine how small business owners fund their businesses. We also used
the Small Business Credit Survey to assess veteran-owned business’
challenges with obtaining financing and the proportion of financing that
veterans and non-veterans received.
We analyzed SBA data on loans made to veteran-owned small
businesses through four SBA lending programs (7(a), 504, Microloan, and
Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loan) for fiscal years 2019
through 2024.6 We also analyzed USDA data on five Farm Service
Agency programs and five Rural Development programs for fiscal years
2019 through 2024. We reviewed documentation related to these data
and found the data to be sufficiently reliable for describing trends in
program lending to such businesses in this period. We also interviewed
SBA and USDA officials about the data. Appendixes III and IV provide
more information about SBA and USDA lending programs.
For the fourth objective, we interviewed or received written comments
from representatives of the nine agencies in our scope and reviewed
program websites to determine how they target military-affiliated people.
We conducted this performance audit from May 2024 to September 2025
in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our
findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe that
5GAO-12-588 and GAO-24-106381.
6The Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loan is one of four types of SBA disaster
loans. In this report, we focus on this particular loan because of its relevance to small
business owners with essential employees who are reservists.
Page 3 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 10

the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our findings and
conclusions based on our audit objectives.
The term financial literacy generally refers to the ability to make informed
Background
decisions and take effective actions regarding money. The federal
government supports financial literacy through dozens of programs and
resources. These efforts are coordinated by the multiagency Financial
Literacy and Education Commission, which includes a working group
focused specifically on financial literacy resources for members of the
U.S. military.7 DOD is the lead agency for this working group.8
In addition to financial education, the federal government also provides
access to capital through targeted small business lending programs. SBA
helps small business owners and entrepreneurs start, build, and grow
businesses through several programs, including 7(a), 504, and Microloan
(see table 1).9 The SBA Express loan—a 7(a) subprogram—offers a fee
waiver to applicants who are veterans or veteran spouses.10 In addition,
SBA offers Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loans which help
sustain businesses adversely that are adversely affected when an
employee is called up for active duty. These programs help provide
financing to small businesses—including those owned by military-
affiliated people—that may not otherwise qualify for loans on reasonable
terms and conditions.
7The Commission comprises the heads of 23 federal agencies and the White House
Domestic Policy Council. It is chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury and vice-chaired by
the Director of CFPB.
8The working group is chaired by the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military
Personnel Policy.
9Several 7(a) subprograms offer streamlined and expedited loan procedures for particular
types of 7(a) loans. The terms of these loans, including the maximum SBA guarantee,
vary by program. The data we present in this report on 7(a) loans include all 7(a)
subprograms.
10SBA is statutorily prohibited from collecting a guaranty fee on 7(a) SBA Express Loans
made to a veteran or spouse of a veteran. 15 U.S.C. § 636(a)(31)(G).
Page 4 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 11

Table 1: SBA Lending Programs Available to Small Businesses
Program Maximum amount Loan type Use of funds Example requirements
7(a) $5 million Loan Provides loans for working capital and A business must be an operating, for-
guarantee other sound business purposes, profit small firm (according to SBA’s
including acquiring, refinancing, or size standards) located in the U.S.
improving real estate and purchasing that can demonstrate a need for the
and installing machinery and desired credit. It must also be unable
equipment. to obtain the desired credit at
reasonable terms from
nongovernment sources without SBA
assistance.
Same as
SBA Express $500,000 7(a) Same as 7(a)a Same as 7(a)
504 $5 millionb Loan Provides long-term, fixed-rate Small businesses may apply for 504
guarantee financing to new or growing small financing through a Certified
businesses for fixed assets such as Development Company serving the
land, buildings, or machinery. project area in which the project is
located. Applicants must be unable to
obtain the desired credit on
reasonable terms from
nongovernment sources without SBA
assistance.
Microloan $50,000 Loan Provides loans to use as working Participating lenders must be private
guarantee or capital and to acquire materials, nonprofit entities or quasi-
direct supplies, furniture, fixtures, and governmental economic development
equipment. entities with at least one year of
experience making microloans to
small businesses and one year
providing technical assistance to its
borrowers.
Military $2 million Direct Provides working capital assistance The business must have an essential
Reservist to small businesses that experience, employee who is a military reservist or
Economic or will experience, financial difficulties member of the National Guard called
Injury Disaster as a result of an essential employee to active duty.
Loan being called up for active duty.
Source: GAO analysis of Small Business Administration (SBA) documentation. | GAO-25-107561
aSBA Express—a 7(a) subprogram—loan borrowers may also use loan proceeds as revolving lines of
credit but cannot use working capital to refinance existing debt.
bThere is a limit of $5.5 million for certain projects. See 13 CFR 120.931(c).
Page 5 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 12

SBA is statutorily required to give special consideration to veterans in
carrying out its lending programs.11 In a December 2023 report, we
recommended that SBA develop and implement policies and procedures
to ensure SBA gives special consideration to veterans in its lending
programs.12 SBA described such policies and procedures in a revised
standard operating procedure for its Lender and Development Company
Loan program, effective June 1, 2025. Specifically, the revised standard
operating procedure states that SBA will (1) waive the upfront fee for SBA
Express Loans to businesses owned and controlled by veterans; (2)
prioritize processing applications from businesses owned by veterans for
loans processed by SBA under nondelegated procedures; and (3)
encourage participating lenders to give special consideration to veterans
during application processing for loans processed under delegated
procedures. SBA stated that, since implementing the procedures, the
agency has processed applications under nondelegated procedures
faster for veteran-owned businesses than for non-veteran-owned
businesses.
USDA also provides loans to small business owners in agriculture and
agribusiness, including military-affiliated people, through its Farm Service
Agency and Rural Development programs.13 These programs help
expand access to credit and capital in rural areas where capital options
may be limited (see tables 2 and 3).
11The Small Business Act states: “In carrying out the programs administered by the Small
Business Administration including its lending and guaranteeing functions, the
Administrator shall not discriminate on the basis of sex or marital status against any
person or small business concern applying for or receiving assistance from the Small
Business Administration, and the Small Business Administration shall give special
consideration to veterans of the Armed Forces of the United States and their survivors or
dependents.” 15 U.S.C. § 633(b)(1).
12GAO-24-106071.
13According to USDA officials, the Farm Service Agency’s Farm Loan Program provides
certain provisions for veteran farmers, including funding prioritization, expanded number of
years of potential eligibility for a direct loan, and access to alternative rates and terms
through the Farm Ownership Down Payment Program.
Page 6 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 13

Table 2: USDA’s Farm Service Agency Lending Programs Available to Small Businesses
Maximum loan
Program amount Loan type Use of funds Example requirements
Direct Farm $600,000 Direct Provides loans to purchase a farm, grow The operation must be a family farm that
Ownership an existing farm, construct new farm is unable to obtain commercial credit for
buildings or improve structures, pay the farm or project. To be eligible,
closing costs, or promote soil and water applicants must have 3 years of farming
conservation and protection. experience, or other relevant training and
education. Funds must be used for
agricultural operations that commercially
produce food or fiber agricultural
commodities.
Direct Farm $400,000 Direct Provide loans for normal operating The operation must be a family farm that
Operating expenses, machinery and equipment, is unable to obtain commercial credit for
minor real estate repairs or the farm or project. To be eligible,
improvements, and refinancing certain applicants must have 1 year of farming
debt. experience, or other relevant training and
education. Funds must be used for
agricultural operations that commercially
produce food or fiber agricultural
commodities.
Direct $500,000 Direct Provides loans to restore or replace In addition to requirements for Farm
Emergency essential property; pay all or part of Ownership and Operating Loans, the
Farm production costs associated with the county or counties where the farm is
disaster year; pay essential family living located must be declared a disaster area
expenses; reorganize the farming by the President or designated by the
operation; or refinance certain debts. Secretary of Agriculture.
Guaranteed $2,251,000a Loan Provides loans to purchase a farm, The operation must be a family farm that
Farm The maximum guarantee enlarge an existing farm, construct new is unable to obtain commercial credit for
Ownership loan amount is farm buildings and/or improve structures, the farm or project without a guarantee.
adjusted annually pay closing costs, and promote soil and Funds must be used for agricultural
for inflation water conservation and protection. operations that commercially produce
food or fiber agricultural commodities
Guaranteed $2,251,000a Loan Provides loans for normal operating The operation must be a family farm that
Farm The maximum guarantee expenses, machinery and equipment, is unable to obtain commercial credit for
Operating loan amount is minor real estate repairs or the farm or project without a guarantee.
adjusted annually improvements, and refinancing debt. Funds must be used for agricultural
for inflation operations that commercially produce
food or fiber agricultural commodities.
Source: GAO analysis of U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) documentation. | GAO-25-107561
aMaximum loan amount for fiscal year 2025.
Page 7 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 14

Table 3: USDA’s Rural Development Lending Programs Available to Small Businesses
Maximum loan
Program amount Loan type Use of funds Example requirements
Business & Generally, $25 Loan Provides loans for business Businesses with facilities located in
Industry Loan million guarantee development, growth, modernization, rural areas that save or create jobs.
Guarantee Up to $40 million conversion, or repair; buying and Eligible entities include
for certain rural developing land, buildings, or partnerships, individuals,
cooperatives with associated infrastructure for cooperatives, for-profit and
approval from the commercial or industrial use; buying nonprofit entities, corporations,
and installing machinery, equipment, including publicly traded
Secretary of
supplies, or inventory; refinancing companies, tribal groups, or local
Agriculture
debt to improve cash flow and create governments.
jobs; acquiring businesses when the
loan will create or save jobs.
Rural Energy $25 million Loan Provides loans for purchasing and Projects must be for purchasing a
for America maximum total guarantee installing renewable energy systems, new, exiting, or refurbished
Program amount such as small and large wind renewable energy system, or
Renewable generation, small and large solar retrofitting an existing renewable
Energy generation, and hydropower below 30 energy system. The system must
Systems & megawatts. use commercially available
Energy technology.
Efficiency
Improvement
Guaranteed
Loans
Intermediary The lesser of Direct Provides loans for purposes that Applicants must not owe any
Relending $400,000 or 50 include business and industrial delinquent debt to the federal
Program percent of the acquisitions when the loan will keep government, must be unable to
originally the business from closing, prevent the obtain affordable commercial
approved loan loss of employment opportunities, or financing for the project elsewhere,
amount to an provide expanded job opportunities; and must hold no legal or financial
intermediarya purchase and development of land; interest or influence in the work of
and debt refinancing. the intermediary lender.b
Rural Economic $1 millionc Direct Provides loans for business Projects must be in rural areas or
Development incubators; community development towns with a population of 50,000
Loan and Grant assistance to nonprofits and public or fewer residents.
Programs bodies (especially for job creation);
education and training facilities for
rural economic development; medical
care facilities and equipment; startup
costs including real estate, equipment,
or working capital; business
expansion; and technical assistance.
Rural $50,000 Direct Provides loans for qualified business Projects must be in rural areas
Microentrepren activities and expenses including outside a city or town with a
eur Assistance working capital, debt refinancing, population of 50,000 or fewer
Program equipment and supply purchases, and residents.
real estate improvements.
Source: GAO analysis of U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) data. | GAO-25-107561
aSee 7 C.F.R. §4274.331.
Page 8 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 15

bIntermediary lenders are local lenders that re-lend to businesses to improve economic conditions
and create jobs in rural communities. They include nonprofits and cooperatives, federally recognized
tribes, and public agencies.
cThis is the 2025 maximum. The maximum loan amount is published yearly. See 7 CFR 4280.38.
Certain features of military life may affect entrepreneurship after service.
For example, a military deployment involves relocating a service member
from their home station to a location outside the continental U.S. and its
territories. Deployments are not limited to combat and may support
missions such as humanitarian aid, evacuation of U.S. citizens,
restoration of peace, or increased security. They can last from 90 days to
15 months. In addition, service members may make a permanent change
of station, which involves longer-term relocations—generally 2 to 4
years—either within or outside the continental U.S.
Several factors affect military-affiliated people in building credit or
Frequent Moves,
accessing capital to fund their small businesses, according to
Limited Networks,
representatives of two nonprofit organizations and officials from a
financial services firm we interviewed, as well as reports we reviewed.
and Other Factors
Can Hinder Military-
Affiliated People’s
Access to Credit and
Capital
Active-Duty Service Active-duty service members may face financial challenges that affect
Members their ability to pursue entrepreneurship after leaving the military. A 2022
DOD survey estimated that 40 percent of active-duty service members
reported some financial difficulty or described their financial condition as
not comfortable. The survey also estimated that 13 percent reported
borrowing money from family or friends to pay bills, and 9 percent
reported failing to make monthly or minimum credit card payments.14 A
representative of a nonprofit organization noted that service members’
lack of knowledge of the business world could be a barrier to successful
business ownership. In addition, a financial services firm we interviewed
14Department of Defense, Report to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and
the House of Representatives, Annual Report on the Financial Literacy and Preparedness
of Members of the Armed Forces, Results from the 2022 Status of Forces Survey (Dec.
2023). The report cited findings from DOD’s Status of Forces Survey, which found that 60
percent of active-duty respondents described their financial condition as comfortable, 25
percent reported some financial difficulty, and 15 percent described their condition as not
comfortable. All estimates from the survey have a margin of error of +5 percent or less.
Page 9 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 16

said that frequent moves due to deployment can hinder the development
of networks with lenders or investors.
Transitioning Service A representative of a nonprofit organization we interviewed noted that
Members transitioning from active duty can be a challenging time that affects
service members’ employment, financial stability, and family and social
relationships. A 2020 CFPB report found that selected active-duty service
members experienced declining credit scores and increased
delinquencies and defaults following their separation from service.15 In
addition, we reported in 2022 that transitioning service members may
experience challenges transferring their military skills and credentials—
such as certifications and licenses—to civilian jobs.16
DOD makes efforts to assist service members with their transition to
civilian life, including assistance with planning to start a business. Prior to
separating from service, transitioning service members participate in the
mandatory Transition Assistance Program, which provides career
readiness services and information on veterans’ benefits.17 The program
is designed to help participants access veterans’ benefits and develop
post-transition plans and goals, including starting a business.18
Veterans As we have reported previously, research suggests that veterans have a
harder time than nonveterans in establishing credit and developing
business relationships, particularly those who relocate to a new area after
15James V. Marrone and Susan P. Carter, Debt and Delinquency After Military Service,
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Nov. 2020). The study analyzed data for a
nongeneralizable sample of 10,872 service members who entered full-time active duty by
age 21 between 2007 and 2018 and had a credit record at the time of separation. All
individuals left active duty at least 1 year prior to the end of the observation window. The
study used data from CFPB’s Consumer Credit Panel, credit files from a nationwide
consumer reporting agency, and data from the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act website.
Findings are not generalizable to service members outside the study’s sample.
16GAO, Military and Veteran Support: DOD Has Taken Steps to Help Servicemembers
Transfer Skills to Civilian Employment but Has Limited Evidence to Determine Program
Effectiveness, GAO-22-105261 (Washington, D.C.: Feb. 17, 2022).
17Under 10 U.S.C. § 1144, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland
Security must require the participation of service members who are being separated from
active duty, with limited exceptions.
18GAO, Servicemembers Transitioning to Civilian Life: DOD Can Better Leverage
Performance Information to Improve Participation in Counseling Pathways,
GAO-23-104538 (Washington, D.C.: Dec. 12, 2022). The program also supports other
goals, such as choosing a career path, finding employment, and selecting a college or
vocational school.
Page 10 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 17

military service.19 An official from a financial services firm we interviewed
noted that, due to their military background, veterans often lack access to
business networks.
Veterans may also face unique challenges in accessing capital for their
businesses. For example, lenders may be unfamiliar with the skill and
experience gained during military service or the specific business type for
which they seek financing.20 Veterans may also lack personal startup
funds, capital, or demonstrable business income, as we have previously
reported.21
Reservists Reservists who own small businesses may experience challenges
resulting from deployment. For example, reservists whose businesses
depend on their specialized skills—such as doctors and dentists—can
experience disruptions when called to active duty, according to
representatives of a financial services firm and a nonprofit organization
we interviewed. In addition, frequent relocations may require adapting to
new regulations, certifications, and tax requirements with each move into
a different state or local jurisdiction, according to the nonprofit
representative. The same nonprofit representative also noted that these
disruptions can make it difficult for reservists to establish stable local
networks, limiting social and human capital needed for business success.
Reservists may also face additional challenges that are not well
understood due to gaps in data collection. For example, while DOD
includes information about reservists in its annual Status of Forces
survey, SBA and USDA loan data do not report information on applicants
who are reservists. Further, national surveys of business owners, such as
Census Bureau’s Annual Business Survey and the Federal Reserve
Banks’ Small Business Credit Survey, do not collect information on
whether a respondent is a reservist.
Military Spouses As with other military-affiliated people, deployment or a permanent
change of station can present challenges for military spouses. These
challenges include irregular income, finding mentorship opportunities, and
finding quality childcare, according to one nonprofit organization that we
interviewed. Additionally, we reported in 2021 that varying occupational
19GAO-24-106071.
20GAO-24-106071.
21GAO-24-106071.
Page 11 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 18

licensing requirements across state lines—in fields such as cosmetology
and medicine—can hinder military spouses’ ability to find and maintain
employment with each move.22
A representative of a nonprofit organization noted that while SBA’s
lending programs are well-known in the military community, some military
spouses may hesitate to apply due to uncertainty about their eligibility.
This hesitancy may stem from frequent relocations, limited income or
credit history, or lack of collateral.
DOD reports information about military spouses in its Active-Duty Spouse
survey. SBA collects information on loan applications about their status
as a spouse of a veteran but does not report on this information
separately. As with reservists, USDA does not report information from
loan applications about a person’s status as a military spouse. Further,
national surveys of business owners, such as Census Bureau’s Annual
Business Survey and the Federal Reserve Banks’ Small Business Credit
Survey, do not collect information on whether a respondent is a military
spouse.
Among the nine federal agencies in our review, we identified 24 programs
Federal Agencies
or resources aimed at helping military-affiliated people or small business
Offer Resources to
owners with their financial decision-making (see fig. 1). These programs
and resources provide help with managing personal or businesses
Help Military-Affiliated
finances, as well as tips for avoiding fraud and scams. DOD and SBA
People with Financial
financial literacy education programs reached an estimated 2.7 million
people in 2023.23 See appendix II for more information about these
Decision-Making
programs.
22GAO, Military Spouse Employment: DOD Should Continue Assessing State Licensing
Practices and Increase Awareness of Resources, GAO-21-193 (Washington, D.C.: Jan.
27, 2021).
23This estimate is based on participation in DOD and SBA programs, as reported by these
agencies.
Page 12 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 19

Figure 1: Federal Financial Literacy Programs and Resources Targeted to Military-Affiliated People or Small Business Owners
aThe intended audience is the individual or group whose financial literacy the program or resource
intends to improve. For example, if a resource is designed for a financial literacy educator to improve
the financial literacy of veterans, we would consider the intended audience to be veterans.
bSome programs or resources are intended for the general public or other groups but also have
information that is specific to the needs of military-affiliated people.
Page 13 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 20

DOD is required to provide financial literacy training to members of the
armed forces.24 Specifically, DOD must provide training to service
members at different points in their career, including upon entry into
service, upon arrival at their first duty station, and at major life events
such a marriage, divorce, or the birth of a first child. DOD and the military
services (such as the Coast Guard) have several programs intended to
address this requirement, including the following:
• The Personal Financial Counseling Program provides in-person,
virtual, and telephone counseling, information and referral, as well as
briefings and financial literacy training and education. The program
serves active-duty service members, reservists, spouses, and other
eligible beneficiaries. According to DOD, the Office of Financial
Readiness provided counseling to over 2 million participants in 2023.
• MilSpouse Money Mission is a financial education website designed
for military spouses to help them enhance their financial knowledge
and skills. According to DOD, over 100,000 users accessed this
website in 2023.
• The Transition Assistance Program includes a financial planning
component to help ensure that departing service members have a
viable plan for transitioning to civilian life, including a post-separation
financial plan.
Additionally, SBA maintains a nationwide network of resource partners
that provide counseling, training, mentoring, and funding guidance to
small business owners, including those who are military-affiliated. This
network includes Veterans Business Outreach Centers, which offer
resources to veterans and other eligible parties interested in starting or
growing a small business.25 These centers are operated by eligible
organizations that include institutions of higher education, nonprofits, and
local and state government agencies.26 They offer entrepreneurial training
through three programs that provide participants with an introductory
2410 U.S.C. § 992. In 2016, DOD established the Office of Financial Readiness to
spearhead the implementation of the department’s statutory financial literacy
requirements.
25SBA’s resource partners also include Small Business Development Centers, which
provide counseling and training at about 900 locations; SCORE Business Mentoring,
which supports about 10,000 volunteer business mentors; and Women’s Business
Centers, which offer long-term advising and training at over 150 locations on finance,
management, marketing, and procurement.
26SBA is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with these eligible organizations
to operate Veterans Business Outreach Centers.
Page 14 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 21

understanding of business ownership and guidance on accessing
financing:
• Boots to Business courses are hosted by military installations
worldwide and targeted to transitioning service members and military
spouses.
• Boots to Business Reboot courses are offered in local communities
or virtually for participants who cannot access military installations.
The program targets veterans of all eras, National Guard and reserve
members, and military spouses.
• Military Spouse Pathway to Business is a course delivered in
person or virtually through Veterans Business Outreach Centers to
military spouse entrepreneurs.
Military-Affiliated
Business Owners
Rely on Self-Funding,
Investors, and
Business Loans for
Capital
A Range of Private Military-affiliated small business owners and entrepreneurs can access
Sources Provide Capital, the same sources of private capital as any business owner, including self-
funding, business loans, and investors (see fig. 2).
but Survey Data Suggest
Challenges
Figure 2: Examples of Private Capital Sources for Small Business Owners
• Self-funding. Military-affiliated and other small business owners can
leverage their own financial resources to start or grow their
Page 15 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 22

businesses. These can include personal savings, borrowing from
family or friends, or withdrawing funds from a retirement account. For
example, the 2022 Survey of Consumer Finances showed that 86
percent of veteran and 87 percent of nonveteran respondents
reported using personal savings and assets to start or acquire their
small business.27 In the same survey, 82 percent of veteran and 68
percent of nonveteran respondents reported using personal savings
and assets to finance ongoing operations and improvements of their
small business.28
• Business loans. Military-affiliated and other small business owners
can seek loans from banks, credit unions, and other nonbank financial
companies to start or grow their businesses. CFPB estimated the
market for small business financing products totaled $1.2 trillion in
outstanding balances in 2019.29 Some banks have initiatives targeted
to veterans—for example, one bank we identified provides discounts
on origination fees for veteran small business loans. In addition, the
American Bankers Association supports access to capital through its
Basic Bank Training for Veterans courses, which help veterans,
transitioning service members, and military spouses better understand
financial services.
• Investors. Military-affiliated and other small business owners may
pursue external funding sources, such as venture capital or
crowdfunding, to start or grow their businesses. Venture capital
provides funding in exchange for an ownership share and often
27Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 2022 Survey of Consumer
Finances (2023), accessed June 2025. The response regarded the use of personal
savings and assets and other sources of funding relative to using only the other sources of
funding. Sources of financing, in addition to personal savings and assets, were personal
or business credit card; personal or business loan from a financial institution, such as a
bank or savings institution, credit union, or other type of institution or investor; other equity
investor; or inherited funds. The relative standard errors were 5 percent and 2 percent,
respectively, for veteran and nonveteran respondents. The study also showed that 54
percent of veterans and 68 percent of nonveterans used only personal savings and assets
to start or acquire their small business rather than combining personal savings and assets
with other sources. The relative standard errors were 9 percent and 3 percent,
respectively. Small businesses were defined as privately held, not publicly traded
businesses with less than 500 employees.
28The relative standard errors were 7 percent and 4 percent, respectively, for veteran and
nonveteran respondents. The study also showed that 61 percent of veterans and 55
percent of nonveterans used only personal savings and assets to finance ongoing
operations and improvements of a small business, rather than combining personal savings
and assets with other sources. The relative standard errors were 11 percent and 5
percent, respectively.
2988 Fed. Reg. 35150, 35155 (May 31, 2023).
Page 16 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 23

involves investors taking an active role in the company. In contrast,
crowdfunding involves raising funds from a large number of
individuals, often through an online platform. Crowdfunders do not
generally receive an ownership stake or expect a financial return. We
spoke with officials from a financial services firm who said they have
provided funding to veteran-founded venture capital firms.
Survey data suggest veteran-owned businesses may face challenges
accessing capital from large banks. In the 2024 Small Business Credit
Survey, majority-veteran-owned businesses (i.e., those at least 51
percent veteran-owned) most frequently cited high interest rates (25
percent), long wait for credit decisions or funding (21 percent), difficult
application processes (20 percent), unfavorable repayment terms (7
percent), and lack of transparency (6 percent) (see table 4). Non-majority-
veteran-owned businesses (i.e., 0–50 percent veteran-owned) reported
these challenges with similar frequency.
Table 4: Reported Challenges Obtaining Financing from Large Banks, by Veteran Ownership Status, 2024
Challenge Majority-veteran-owned businesses Non-majority-veteran-owned businesses
High interest rate 25% 30%
Long wait for credit decision or funding 21% 21%
Difficult application process 20% 22%
Unfavorable repayment terms 7% 10%
Lack of transparency 6% 12%
Other 0% 3%
Source: GAO analysis of Small Business Credit Survey data. | GAO-25-107561
Note: Majority-veteran-owned businesses are those at least 51 percent owned by veterans, and non-
majority-veteran-owned businesses are 0–50 percent veteran-owned. Estimates in this table have
relative standard errors of less than 40 percent except for “unfavorable repayment terms” and “lack of
transparency” for majority-veteran-owned businesses.
Some majority-veteran-owned small businesses also reported receiving
less financing than they applied for through loans, lines of credit, and
merchant cash advance applications. In 2024, 25 percent of these
businesses reported receiving none of the financing they applied for, 9
percent received some, and 14 percent received most (see fig. 3). Non-
majority-veteran-owned small businesses generally reported similar
challenges. Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland officials noted that since
the COVID-19 pandemic, a growing share of applications has been
approved for less than full amount requested. They attributed this trend in
part to an increased use of online lenders, which are more likely than
other lenders to approve partial amounts. The officials also noted that
Page 17 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 24

while the challenges at large banks are similar for majority-veteran and
non-majority-veteran-owned businesses, their survey data show that
majority-veteran businesses generally have more challenges at small
banks than at large banks, and non-majority-veteran businesses
generally have fewer challenges at small banks than at large banks.
Figure 3: Proportion of Financing Received by Veteran- and Non-Veteran-Owned
Businesses, 2024
Note: Majority-veteran-owned businesses are at least 51 percent veteran-owned. Non-majority-
veteran-owned businesses are 0–50 percent veteran-owned. Estimates in this figure have relative
standard errors of 36 percent or less.
SBA Lending to Veterans According to our analysis of fiscal year 2019–2024 SBA data, veterans
Increased in 2019–2024, received approximately 3.9 percent to 4.4 percent of all loans in the 7(a),
While USDA Lending
Decreased
Page 18 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 25

504, and Microloan programs (see table 5).30 The total number of loans
provided to veterans generally increased by the end of 2024. SBA did not
approve any Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster loans for
veteran-owned businesses during this period. For additional analysis, see
appendix III.
Table 5: Number and Percentage of Loans Provided to Veterans for Three SBA Loan Programs, Fiscal Years 2019–2024
Number of loans to Percentage
veterans change,
(percentage of total) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2019–2024
7(a) program 2,491 1,934 2,175 2,242 2,706 2,999 20.4%
(percentage of total) (4.8%) (4.6%) (4.2%) (4.7%) (4.7%) (4.3%)
SBA Express programa 1,070 921 774 901 1,112 1,031 -3.6%
(percentage of total) (4.7) (5.1) (4.3) (4.5) (4.4) (3.9)
504 program 129 197 242 250 135 163 26.4%
(percentage of total) (2.1) (2.8) (2.5) (2.7) (2.3) (2.7)
Microloan program 183 221 181 173 196 200 9.3%
(percentage of total) (3.3) (3.7) (4.0) (3.4) (3.5) (3.8)
Total for all programs 2,803 2352 2598 2665 3037 3362 19.9%
(percentage of total) (4.4) (4.2) (3.9) (4.3) (4.4) (4.1)
Source: GAO analysis of Small Business Administration (SBA) data. | GAO-25-107561
aSBA Express is a 7(a) subprogram.
The proportion of 7(a) loans—SBA’s primary lending program—provided
to veterans ranged from 4.2 percent to 4.8 percent during fiscal years
2019–2024, closely reflecting the share of U.S. employer firms that were
veteran-owned.31 According to SBA officials, several agency efforts likely
contributed to increased lending to veterans during this period. These
efforts include outreach by SBA offices—particularly the Office of
Veterans Business Development— and its partners. In addition, officials
said that expanded communications about SBA’s COVID-era products
and services may have increased awareness of its core offerings. The
total number of SBA Express loans provided to veterans fluctuated during
fiscal years 2019–2024 but ended on a downward trend. SBA said it
30These data represent loans made to veterans and do not include loans made
specifically to active duty or transitioning service members, reservists, or military/veteran
spouses.
31According to the 2023 Annual Business Survey, which covers reference year 2022, 4.7
percent of U.S. employer firms were veteran-owned.
Page 19 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 26

could not explain the downward trend in SBA Express lending to veterans
during this period.
Average loan amounts for veterans generally were lower than for
nonveterans in the 7(a) and 504 loan programs in fiscal years 2019–
2024. However, for the SBA Express and Microloan programs, veterans
averaged higher loan amounts than nonveterans (see table 6).
Table 6: Average SBA Loan Amounts Approved by Veteran Status, Fiscal Years
2019–2024
Average approved amount (dollars)
Loan program Veteran Nonveteran
7(a) $401,752 $522,969
SBA Expressa $98,766 $98,411
504 $775,390 $941,360
Microloan $21,820 $16,043
Source: GAO analysis of Small Business Administration (SBA) data. | GAO-25-107561
aSBA Express is a 7(a) subprogram.
Note: Averages were calculated by dividing the total value of the loans approved during the 6-year
period by the total number of loans approved during the 6-year period.
USDA also offers loans through its Farm Service Agency and Rural
Development programs for military-affiliated small businesses engaged in
farming, ranching, and other agricultural activities in rural communities. In
fiscal years 2019–2024, USDA approved between 2.9 and 3.5 percent of
all Farm Service Agency loan applications for veterans, based on our
analysis of agency data. The number of approved applications for
veterans from the Direct Farm Operating, Guaranteed Farm Operating,
and Guaranteed Farm Ownership programs generally declined over this
period, while loans from the Direct Farm Ownership program increased
by the end of 2024 (see table 7). According to USDA officials, these
reductions are consistent with the reduction in the total number of
approved applications. In particular, the proportion of all Farm Service
Agency loans made to veterans was the same in both 2019 and 2024 (3.3
percent). For additional analysis, see appendix IV.
Page 20 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 27

Table 7: Number and Percentage of Applications Approved for Veterans for Five Farm Service Agency Programs, Fiscal Years
2019–2024
Percentage
change,
Loan program 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2019–2024
Direct Emergency Farm 2 0 0 0 0 2 N/Aa
(percentage of total) (2.1%) (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) (4.3%)
Direct Farm Operating 673 734 561 431 444 512 -23.9%
(percentage of total) (3.8) (4.1) (4.0) (3.7) (3.6) (3.9)
Guaranteed Farm Operating 67 68 27 29 28 29 -56.7%
(percentage of total) (1.9) (1.8) (1.1) (1.3) (1.6) (1.5)
Direct Farm Ownership 234 290 228 173 208 248 6.0%
(percentage of total) (3.5) (3.8) (3.2) (2.8) (3.3) (3.5)
Guaranteed Farm Ownership 86 109 87 68 41 35 -59.3%
(percentage of total) (2.2) (2.1) (1.9) (1.8) (1.7) (1.3)
Total for all programs 1,062 1,201 903 701 721 826 -22.2%
(percentage of total) (3.3) (3.5) (3.2) (2.9) (3.2) (3.3)
Source: GAO analysis of U.S. Department of Agriculture data | GAO-25-107561
aWe did not calculate a percentage change for Direct Emergency Farm loans because the number of
loans to veteran-owned businesses during fiscal years 2019–2024 is not sufficient to draw any
conclusions.
The number of applications approved for veterans ranged from zero to
734, depending on the program in fiscal years 2019 through 2024.
Veterans averaged higher loan amounts than nonveterans under the
Direct Emergency Farm, Direct Farm Operating, and Guaranteed Farm
Operating loan programs during fiscal years 2019–2024. However, for
Direct Farm Ownership and Guaranteed Farm Ownership programs the
average approved loan amounts for veterans were lower than those for
nonveterans (see table 8).
Page 21 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 28

Table 8: Average Loan Amounts Approved by Veteran Status, USDA Farm Service
Agency Loan Programs, Fiscal Years 2019–2024
Average approved amount (dollars)
Loan program Veteran Nonveteran
Direct Emergency Farm $149,148 $147,559
Direct Farm Operating $81,973 $55,053
Guaranteed Farm Operating $340,508 $329,926
Direct Farm Ownership $232,446 $278,461
Guaranteed Farm Ownership $550,428 $563,678
Source: GAO analysis of U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) data. | GAO-25-107561
Note: Averages were calculated by dividing the total value of the loans approved during the 6-year
period by the total number of loans approved during the 6-year period.
In fiscal years 2019–2024, USDA approved 25 loan applications for
veterans under one of its Rural Development programs—the Business &
Industry Guarantee Loan program.
Federal agencies have taken steps to raise awareness of lending and
Agency Outreach
financial literacy programs among military-affiliated individuals.
Includes
Presentations,
• Presentations. Agency officials told us they promoted awareness of
lending and financial literacy programs both in-person and virtually
Networking, and during workshops, training events, and webinars. For example, SBA
officials said staff from its Office of Veterans Business Development
Online Tools
delivered over 100 presentations annually in fiscal years 2023 and
2024. These presentations included information on eligibility for SBA’s
guarantee fee waiver and marketing of SBA loan programs. VA’s
website promoted an online event, “SBA Hour with Veterans,” in
which veterans working at SBA discussed resources available to
military-affiliated people. USDA officials reported promoting lending
programs during workshops, presentations, and webinars.
• Networking events and program referrals. Agency officials also
said they attended networking events where they meet directly with
military-affiliated business owners and can connect them to a variety
of resources. According to an SBA report, the Office of Veterans
Business Development participated in 118 outreach and networking
events nationwide in fiscal year 2023, including SBA’s Military Spouse
Entrepreneur Summit and the American Legion Small Business
Page 22 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 29

Conference.32 According to USDA officials, USDA staff attend
conferences and other events to meet directly with veteran business
owners and promote USDA programs.
• Targeted social media and websites. Agencies also used social
media and websites to raise awareness about programs and
resources available to military-affiliated people. For example, VA uses
social media to raise awareness of small business resources offered
by other agencies such as SBA. SBA’s Office of Veterans Business
Development officials noted that they promote SBA programs,
initiatives, and resources several times a month via SBA’s social
media channels. In addition, SBA’s website has dedicated pages on
its main website focused on training programs, loan programs, and
support for veteran and military spouse-owned businesses.33 DOD’s
Office of Financial Readiness website offers help for service members
seeking information on accessing personal financial counseling and
other information about benefits, saving, and investment. In 2020,
DOD launched the MilSpouse Money Mission website to help military
spouses access financial education.
We provided a draft of this report to SBA, DOD, VA, CFPB, USDA, the
Agency Comments
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Department of
the Treasury, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal
Trade Commission, the National Credit Union Administration, and the
Securities and Exchange Commission for review and comment. The
National Credit Union Administration provided written comments,
reprinted in appendix V. VA also provided written comments, reprinted in
appendix VI. VA’s comments summarized various agency financial
literacy resources available to military-affiliated people, such as a
mandatory course provided to transitioning service members under the
Transition Assistance Program that provides information on how service
members can protect themselves from scams, fraudulent actions, and
predatory lending practices. The other agencies and the National Credit
Union Administration provided technical comments, which we
incorporated as appropriate.
32SBA, Fiscal Year 2023 Advisory Committee on Veterans Business Affairs Annual Report
(Apr. 2024).
33SBA, “Veteran-owned businesses” last updated July 23, 2025,
https://www.sba.gov/business-guide/grow-your-business/veteran-owned-businesses;
“Military spouse businesses,” last updated June 3, 2025,
https://www.sba.gov/business-guide/grow-your-business/military-spouse-businesses.
Page 23 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 30

We are sending copies of this report to the appropriate congressional
committees and the Acting Director of the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, Secretary of Defense, Secretary of Agriculture, Secretary of the
Treasury, Acting Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,
Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, Chair of the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve, Chairman of the National Credit Union
Administration, and the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange
Commission. In addition, the report is available at no charge on the GAO
website at https://www.gao.gov.
If you or your staff have any questions about this report, please contact
me at lafountainc@gao.gov. Contact points for our Offices of
Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page
of this report. GAO staff who made key contributions to this report are
listed in appendix VII.
Courtney LaFountain
Acting Director, Financial Markets and Community Investment
Page 24 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 31

Appendix I: Obj ectives, Scope, and
Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and
Methodology
Methodology
This report examines (1) any challenges that military-affiliated people may
face in building credit or accessing capital for their small businesses, (2)
federal financial literacy resources available to military-affiliated people,
(3) sources of capital available to military-affiliated people, and (4) agency
efforts to raise their awareness about financial literacy and lending
programs.
For this report, we focused on federal financial literacy resources and
lending programs available to, or specifically designed for, military-
affiliated people at nine agencies: Small Business Administration (SBA),
Department of Defense, Department of Veterans Affairs, Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA),
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Federal Trade Commission,
National Credit Union Administration, and Securities and Exchange
Commission. We selected SBA based on our prior work on veteran
lending.1 We selected the other agencies based on our prior work on
financial literacy programs, based on interviews with other agencies in our
scope, or because their mission includes services for military-affiliated
people.2 In addition, we interviewed officials from the Department of the
Treasury about the Financial Literacy and Education Commission and
corresponded with officials from the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
regarding their Small Business Credit Survey data.
To examine the challenges that military-affiliated people may face when
building credit or accessing capital for a small business, we interviewed or
received written comments from representatives of four nonprofit
organizations that support military-affiliated small business owners, as
well as five financial services firms or associations with initiatives
targeting this population.3 We identified these organizations from our prior
work, our interviews, or because they serve the military community. We
contacted two additional organizations that advocate for reservists that
1GAO, Small Business Administration: Procedures for Reporting on Veteran-Owned
Businesses Need Improvement, GAO-24-106071 (Washington, D.C.: Dec. 21, 2023).
2GAO, Financial Literacy: Overlap of Programs Suggests There May Be Opportunities for
Consolidation, GAO-12-588 (Washington, D.C.: July 23, 2012) and GAO, Financial
Literacy: Better Outcome Reporting Could Facilitate Oversight of Programs for Older
Adults and People with Disabilities, GAO-24-106381 (Washington, D.C.: Apr. 24, 2024).
3The nonprofit organizations were the D’Aniello Institute for Veterans and Military
Families, National Veteran-Owned Business Association, National Veteran Small
Business Coalition, and Rosie Network. The financial services firms and associations
were the American Bankers Association, Association of Military Banks of America,
Defense Credit Union Council, JP Morgan Chase, and People Fund.
Page 25 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix I: Obj ectives, Scope, and
Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and
Methodology |
| Methodology |

## Page 32

Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and
Methodology
did not respond to our request for an interview. We contacted two
additional financial services firms but did not conduct interviews with
them. In the interviews, we discussed how military-affiliated people
access federal and private sources of capital and any challenges they
face in building credit and accessing capital. We analyzed our interviews
to determine the most frequently noted challenges for each of the
populations we discussed. The views expressed by those we interviewed
cannot be generalized to all such entities.
We also reviewed government reports, studies, and other literature to
identify challenges faced by military-affiliated people. We identified these
materials by conducting keyword searches—such as “veteran,” “military,”
“small business,” and “entrepreneur” —in databases such as EBSCO,
ProQuest, and Scopus. We focused on peer-reviewed literature,
government reports, trade and industry articles, and publications from
associations or nonprofits covering the period from January 2014 through
June 2024. We then selected studies that discussed topics such as
obstacles, combat exposure or deployment, and disruptions or gaps
related to access to capital or financial literacy. We excluded materials
that focused on procurements or contracting, COVID relief funding,
federal grants, or state-level funding. We reviewed 47 relevant results.
To describe federal financial literacy efforts for military-affiliated people,
we reviewed our prior relevant work on federal financial literacy
programs.4 We also obtained updated information from the nine agencies
in our scope through interviews or written responses. This included
participant counts and webpage views for 2019 through 2023, where
applicable.
To describe the characteristics of veteran- and nonveteran-owned small
businesses, we reviewed data from the Census Bureau’s American
Business Survey for 2023 and Nonemployer Statistics by Demographics
for 2022, the most recent year available. The American Business Survey
collects information on the economic and demographic information of
approximately 300,000 employer businesses (i.e., those with paid
employees) annually. Although these data cover businesses of all sizes,
small businesses account for more than 99 percent of all businesses. The
Nonemployer Statistics by Demographics provide similar information for
4GAO-12-588 and GAO-24-106381.
Page 26 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 33

Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and
Methodology
nonemployer businesses, using existing administrative records to assign
demographic and economic characteristics.
To identify private sources of capital available to military-affiliated people,
we reviewed SBA’s website, the Federal Reserve Banks’ Small Business
Credit Survey questionnaire, and interviews with representatives of
nonprofit organizations and financial services firms that assist military-
affiliated small business owners. We analyzed data from the Federal
Reserve’s 2022 Survey of Consumer Finances to examine how small
business owners fund their businesses. The Survey of Consumer
Finances is a triennial, cross-sectional survey with data on U.S. families’
balance sheets, pensions, income, and demographic characteristics.
These were the most recent available data at the time of our study.
We also used the 2024 Small Business Credit Survey to assess veteran-
owned business’ challenges with obtaining financing and the proportion of
financing that veterans and non-veterans received. This survey—
conducted in collaboration with all 12 Federal Reserve Banks—collects
information from a national sample of firms with fewer than 500
employees. It provides insights into small businesses’ financial condition,
credit risk, and financing experiences. These were the most recent
available data at the time of our study.
We reviewed data reliability documentation for the sources of survey data
(American Business Survey, Nonemployer Statistics by Demographics,
Small Business Credit Survey, and Survey of Consumer Finances). We
deemed the data to be sufficiently reliable for describing business
characteristics of and challenges experienced by veteran-owned small
businesses.
In addition, we analyzed SBA data on the number and dollar amount of
loans made to veteran-owned small businesses through four SBA lending
programs—7(a), 504, Microloan, and Military Reservist Economic Injury
Disaster Loan—from fiscal year 2019 through 2024. We also analyzed
data on five USDA Farm Service Agency programs and five USDA Rural
Development programs from fiscal years 2019 through 2024. These were
the most recent data at the time of our study. For 7(a), we reported
information that includes all subprograms and only highlighted SBA
Express loans because they provide fee relief to veteran-owned as well
as veteran spouse-owned small businesses. We did not include other
types of SBA disaster loans in our review but focused on Military
Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loans because of their relevance to
small business owners with essential employees who are reservists. We
Page 27 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 34

Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and
Methodology
reviewed supporting documentation and found the data to be sufficiently
reliable for describing trends in program lending to such businesses in
this period. We also interviewed SBA and USDA officials about data
reliability and their views on trends in the data.
To examine agency efforts to raise awareness about federal financial
literacy and lending programs, we interviewed or received written
comments from representatives of the nine agencies in our scope. We
also reviewed program websites to determine how the selected agencies
target military-affiliated people.
We conducted this performance audit from May 2024 to September 2025
in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our
findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe that
the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our findings and
conclusions based on our audit objectives.
Page 28 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 35

Appendix II: Pa rticipation and Usage of
Appendix II: Participation and Usage of
Selected Federal Financial Literacy Programs
and Resources
Selected Federal Financial Literacy
Programs and Resources
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) offers web-based
Consumer Financial
resources for service members, veterans, and military families, which
Protection Bureau
include information about credit, fraud, scams, and service members’
legal rights. One resource, Navigating the Military Financial Lifecycle,
provides resources to help military families make financial decisions
aligned with military career milestones. CFPB officials said they also
distribute printed publications to Military Entrance Processing Stations on
financial literacy topics. From 2018 through 2024, according to CFPB
officials, there have been approximately 1.3 million users of Ask CFPB
web pages related to military questions. They also noted that about
250,000 of the 1.3 million users accessed the Office of Servicemember
Affairs’ military-specific pages and tools. CFPB officials also said they
distributed more than 680,000 publications to Military Entrance
Processing Stations.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Farm Service Agency
Department of
provides technical assistance to all loan applicants—such as support with
Agriculture
developing financial information and navigating the loan process—
through training delivered in partnership with third-party vendors,
according to USDA officials. From 2019 through 2023, between 755 and
1,461 people participated in these classes (see table 9).
Table 9: Number of Participants in USDA Farm Service Agency Training Classes,
Fiscal Years 2019–2023
Fiscal year Number of participants
2019 1,461
2020 1,232
2021 1,124
2022 850
2023 755
Source: GAO analysis of U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) data. | GAO-25-107561
The Department of Defense’s (DOD) Office of Financial Readiness and
Department of
the military services’ Personal Financial Counseling Programs provide in-
Defense
person, virtual, and telephone counseling to active-duty service members,
reservists, military spouses, and eligible beneficiaries. Personal financial
counselors are available during the week, as well as evenings and
weekends, and are stationed at military installations worldwide, including
armories and reserve centers. From fiscal year 2020 through fiscal year
2023, the program served between 1,925,116 and 3,268,226 participants
annually (see table 10).
Page 29 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix II: Pa rticipation and Usage of
Appendix II: Participation and Usage of
Selected Federal Financial Literacy Programs |
| and Resources
Selected Federal Financial Literacy |
| Programs and Resources |

## Page 36

Appendix II: Participation and Usage of
Selected Federal Financial Literacy Programs
and Resources
Table 10: Number of Participants in DOD Office of Financial Readiness Personal
Financial Counseling Program, Fiscal Years 2020–2023
Fiscal year Number of participants
2020 1,925,116
2021 3,042,596
2022 3,268,226
2023 2,340,786
Source: GAO analysis of Department of Defense (DOD) data. | GAO-25-107561
Note: According to DOD, data for fiscal year 2019 are not available.
In addition, beginning in 2022, Office of Financial Readiness officials said
they began offering a Financial Well-Being Assessment, which uses 12
questions to identify areas for improvement and provides resources
focused on improving financial well-being. The assessment is based on
research from CFPB and reflects key elements of financial well-being,
including present and future financial security and freedom of choice. It is
accessible directly through a DOD website or may be integrated into
training and counseling activities. From June 2022 through December
2023, the assessment website had over 9,000 visits.
The Office of Financial Readiness also offers MilSpouse Money Mission,
a financial education website designed for military spouses to help them
with financial decisions. From fiscal year 2021 through 2023, the site
received between 41,966 and 106,710 users annually (see table 11).
Table 11: Number of Website Sessions and Users for MilSpouse Money Mission,
2021–2023
Fiscal year Website sessions Users
2021 58,875 48,364
2022 50,792 41,966
2023 128,108 106,710
Source: GAO analysis of Department of Defense (DOD) data. | GAO-25-107561
Note: According to DOD, data for fiscal year 2019 and 2020 are not available.
DOD’s Transition Assistance Program provides training for service
members transitioning from active duty to civilian life. According to DOD
officials, the program provides financial literacy information through a
mandatory Financial Planning for Transition class that helps to ensure
Page 30 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 37

Appendix II: Participation and Usage of
Selected Federal Financial Literacy Programs
and Resources
departing service members have a viable plan for transitioning to civilian
life.1 It also includes a financial planning module and an individual self-
assessment program that encourages service members to evaluate the
financial aspects of their transition. From calendar year 2020 through
calendar year 2023, annual participation ranged from 171,657 to 193,968
participants annually (see table 12).
Table 12: Number of Participants in the DOD Transition Assistance Program,
Calendar Years 2020–2023
Calendar year Participants
2020 193,968
2021 177,125
2022 186,756
2023 171,657
Source: GAO analysis of Department of Defense (DOD) data. | GAO-25-107561
DOD collects customer satisfaction data from service members
participating in the Transition Assistance Program. From 2019 through
2022, more than 80 percent of respondents agreed or strongly agreed
with questions related to their satisfaction with the program (see table 13).
Table 13: DOD Transition Assistance Program Customer Satisfaction Survey Results, Percentage of Respondents Who
Agreed or Strongly Agreed with Each Question, Fiscal Year 2019–2022
Survey question 2019 2020 2021 2022
I know how to access resources (counselors, online resources) to 93% 86.6% 90% 93%
get answers to transition questions I may have in the next several
months.
Overall, the classroom facilities (or virtual environments) were 91 83.9 87 90
adequate for the program.
Overall, this program was beneficial in helping me gain the 91 82.8 88 91
information and skills I need to better plan my transition.
Overall, this program enhanced my confidence in transition 90 83 87 90
planning.
Overall, I will use what I learned in this program in my transition 91 84.3 88 91
planning.
1The Department of Veterans Affairs’ written comments also noted that the Transition
Assistance Program includes a VA Benefits and Services course that provides information
and tools for navigating VA benefits and includes information on how transitioning service
members can protect themselves from fraud, scams, and predatory lending practices.
Page 31 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 38

Appendix II: Participation and Usage of
Selected Federal Financial Literacy Programs
and Resources
Overall, the program has prepared me to meet my post-transition 90 82.5 86 89
goals (employment, education, entrepreneurship goals).
Source: GAO analysis of Department of Defense (DOD) data. | GAO-25-107561
DOD’s Office of Military Community and Family Policy also offers the
Spouse Education and Career Opportunities Program, which connects
military spouses with tools and resources such as education and training,
career coaching and exploration, and employment opportunities. From
fiscal year 2019 through fiscal year 2023, program officials said they
conducted between 154,000 and 161,000 career coaching sessions
annually (see table 14).
Table 14: Number of Coaching Sessions for the DOD Spouse Education and Career
Opportunities Program, Fiscal Years 2019–2023
Year Number of coaching sessions
2019 159,000
2020 161,000
2021 154,000
2022 155,000
2023 159,000
Source: GAO analysis of Department of Defense (DOD) data. | GAO-25-107561
The National Credit Union Administration offers web-based resources on
National Credit Union
MyCreditUnion.gov for active-duty servicemembers and military families.
Administration
According to National Credit Union Administration officials, these
resources include information about the Military Lending Act, which
protects active-duty servicemembers and their families from unscrupulous
lenders by setting a limit on the amount of interest, fees, and other
charges on certain loans, among other protections; the Servicemembers
Civil Relief Act, which provides protections for military members including
an interest rate cap, protection against foreclosure, provisions for lease
termination, stay of court proceedings, and protection against
repossession; and student loans, including access to special education
benefits under the G.I. Bill.2 Officials said the MyCreditUnion.gov website
attracted more than 4.2 million views from 2019 through 2023.
2See 10 U.S.C. § 987, 50 U.S.C. §§ 3901-4043, and Servicemen’s Readjustment Act of
1944, Pub. L. No. 78-346, 58 Stat. 284.
Page 32 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 39

Appendix II: Participation and Usage of
Selected Federal Financial Literacy Programs
and Resources
The Securities and Exchange Commission’s Office of Investor Education
Securities and
and Advocacy offers online resources for veterans and military families on
Exchange
its websites, Investor.gov and SEC.gov. Officials provided written
comments noting this content receives approximately 25,000 page views
Commission
annually.
In addition, Securities and Exchange Commission officials noted that they
conduct in-person outreach and distribute brochures at military
installations. According to the officials, military briefings for junior enlisted
and junior officers focus on smart use of credit and debt, establishing an
emergency fund, building wealth through tax-advantaged accounts like
the Thrift Savings Plan and retirement accounts, the benefits of
diversification to reduce risk in investing, and how to spot and avoid
investment scams. Briefings for more senior personnel include financial
considerations when transitioning from military to civilian careers, the risk
and return of investing, common investment products, diversification, how
fees impact investing, and how to spot and avoid scams. According to
agency officials, during fiscal years 2019–2023, staff participated in more
than 300 events and distributed more than 100,000 print publications as
part of their veterans and military outreach.
The Small Business Administration’s (SBA) Veterans Business Outreach
Small Business
Centers offer entrepreneurial training through the Boots to Business and
Administration
Boots to Business Reboot programs. These programs provide
participants with an introductory understanding of business ownership.
Boots to Business courses are hosted by military installations worldwide
as part of DOD’s Transition Assistance Program and is transitioning
service members and military spouses. Boots to Business Reboot is
offered virtually or in community settings for those participants who
cannot access military installations. It targets veterans, reservists, and
military spouses.
SBA also offers a Boots to Business Revenue Readiness course under a
cooperative agreement with Mississippi State University. The course
helps participants create a business model and plan in a compressed
time frame. The 6-week course is offered in an online classroom format
and targets veterans and military spouses.
Between fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2023, the Boots to Business
program had between 9,515 and 18,125 attendees annually (see table
15). The Boots to Business Reboot program had between 1,623 and
3,290 attendees annually (see table 16).
Page 33 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 40

Appendix II: Participation and Usage of
Selected Federal Financial Literacy Programs
and Resources
Table 15: Number of Events and Attendees, Boots to Business Program, Fiscal
Years 2019–2023
Fiscal year Number of training events Number of attendees
2019 816 11,827
2020 733 9,515
2021 945 12,666
2022 1,014 17,076
2023 1,007 18,125
Source: GAO analysis of Small Business Administration (SBA) data. | GAO-25-107561
Table 16: Number of Events and Attendees, Boots to Business Reboot Program,
Fiscal Years 2019–2023
Fiscal year Number of training events Number of attendees
2019 141 1,623
2020 160 2,489
2021 195 3,290
2022 184 2,790
2023 200 3,104
Source: GAO analysis of Small Business Administration (SBA) data. | GAO-25-107561
Additionally, the Boots to Business Revenue Readiness program had
between 259 and 764 attendees annually between fiscal year 2019 and
fiscal year 2023 (see table 17).
Table 17: Number of Events and Attendees, Boots to Business Revenue Readiness
Program, Fiscal Years 2019–2023
Fiscal year Number of training events Number of attendees
2019 20 259
2020 32 686
2021 39 712
2022 36 674
2023 37 764
Source: GAO analysis of Small Business Administration (SBA) data. | GAO-25-107561
SBA also offers the Military Spouse Pathway to Business program, a
course designed for military spouse entrepreneurs. The course is
delivered in person or virtually through Veterans Business Outreach
Page 34 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 41

Appendix II: Participation and Usage of
Selected Federal Financial Literacy Programs
and Resources
Centers and covers topics such as market research, economics, and
available support resources. The course is intended to help participants
learn how to access startup capital, receive technical assistance, and
pursue contract opportunities.
The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Office of Outreach, Transition,
Department of
and Economic Development officials said they offer a Wellness
Veterans Affairs
Wednesday Financial Literacy Series, a weekly seminar on financial
topics presented in partnership with a financial services company. In
addition, officials said VA offers three web-based resources. Veteran
Benefits Fraud Prevention provides information on fraud and scams that
may target veterans. VetCents offers general financial literacy
information. Finally, Veteran Saves provides information aimed at helping
veterans grow their savings. From 2019 through 2023, the Wellness
Wednesday Financial Literacy Series had a total of 1,713 participants,
according to agency officials.
Several agencies collaborate to offer financial literacy resources tailored
Multiple Agencies
to military-affiliated individuals and small business owners:
• The Federal Trade Commission developed and manages the Military
Consumer webpage in collaboration with DOD and CFPB. The site
provides financial education for military-affiliated people, including
information related to specific military life events such as
deployments, permanent changes of station, and promotions. It also
covers general financial topics such as money management, buying
or renting a home or car, and understanding credit and investments.
In addition, Federal Trade Commission officials noted that their
website provides information about enforcement actions, including
those regarding servicemembers, their families, and veterans, and
those that address unfair or deceptive practices in violation of the
Federal Trade Commission Act and other illegal practices in violation
of numerous statutes and regulations, including the Military Lending
Act, enforced by the Commission. Between fiscal year 2019 and fiscal
year 2023, the Military Consumer webpage was accessed by around
500,000 unique users, according to agency officials.
• The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and SBA jointly provide
Money Smart for Small Business, a free, instructor-led financial
literacy resource. According to the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation website, the program includes learning modules on
financial management, recordkeeping, and risk management. The
curriculum is designed to be taught by staff from financial institutions,
small business development centers, economic development offices,
Page 35 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 42

Appendix II: Participation and Usage of
Selected Federal Financial Literacy Programs
and Resources
and other organizations. In addition, Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation officials said they offer financial literacy resources and
webinars intended for military-affiliated individuals and small business
owners as a part of its Consumer Resource Center website.
According to Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation officials,
approximately 630 member organizations use Money Smart for Small
Business.
Page 36 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 43

Appendix III: Da ta on 7(a), 504, and
Appendix III: Data on 7(a), 504, and Microloan
Programs, Fiscal Years 2019–2024
Microloan Programs, Fiscal Years 2019–
2024
This appendix provides data on the number, total dollar amount, and
average loan amount of loans approved under the 7(a), 504, and
Microloan programs, disaggregated by veteran status, for fiscal years
2019 through 2024. All years cited below refer to fiscal years.
The number and dollar amount of loans to veterans through the 7(a)
7(a) Program
program generally increased during fiscal years 2019 through 2024. The
number and dollar amount of 7(a) loans to nonveterans fluctuated more
during the same period but ended on an upward trend. (see fig. 4).
Figure 4: Number and Amount of 7(a) Loans to Veterans and Nonveterans, Fiscal Years 2019–2024
The average 7(a) loan amount for veterans decreased from 2019 to 2020,
then increased in 2021. In contrast, the average loan amount for
nonveterans during fiscal years 2019 through 2021 increased. From fiscal
years 2022 through 2024, the average loan amount for veterans and
nonveterans decreased. In each year, the average loan amount for
nonveterans was higher than that for veterans (see fig. 5).
Page 37 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix III: Da ta on 7(a), 504, and
Appendix III: Data on 7(a), 504, and Microloan
Programs, Fiscal Years 2019–2024 |
| Microloan Programs, Fiscal Years 2019– |
| 2024 |

## Page 44

Appendix III: Data on 7(a), 504, and Microloan
Programs, Fiscal Years 2019–2024
Figure 5: Average Loan Amount of 7(a) Loans by Veteran Status, Fiscal Years 2019–
2024
The number and dollar amount of 504 loans specifically to veterans
504 Program
increased each year from fiscal years 2019 through 2022, declined in
2023, then increased in 2024. The number and dollar amount of 504
loans to nonveterans increased from 2019 to 2020 and from 2020 to
2021. From 2021 to 2022, the number of loans to nonveterans
decreased, while the dollar amount of these loans increased. In 2023 the
number and dollar amount decreased, then increased slightly in 2024
(see fig. 6).
Page 38 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 45

Appendix III: Data on 7(a), 504, and Microloan
Programs, Fiscal Years 2019–2024
Figure 6: Number and Amount of 504 Loans to Veterans and Nonveterans, Fiscal Years 2019–2024
The average 504 loan amount was higher for nonveterans than for
veterans in each year for fiscal years 2019 through 2024. Average loan
amounts to nonveterans increased during the period, while average loan
amounts to veterans fluctuated (see fig. 7).
Page 39 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 46

Appendix III: Data on 7(a), 504, and Microloan
Programs, Fiscal Years 2019–2024
Figure 7: Average Loan Amount of 504 Loans by Veteran Status, Fiscal Years 2019–
2024
The number and dollar amount of microloans provided to veterans
Microloan Program
fluctuated during fiscal years 2019 through 2024. The number and dollar
amount of loans provided to nonveterans through the Microloan program
also fluctuated during this period (see fig. 8).
Page 40 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 47

Appendix III: Data on 7(a), 504, and Microloan
Programs, Fiscal Years 2019–2024
Figure 8: Number and Amount of Microloans to Veterans and Nonveterans, Fiscal Years 2019–2024
In contrast to the 7(a) and 504 loan programs, the average Microloan
amount was higher for veterans than for nonveterans in each fiscal year
from 2019 through 2024 (see fig. 9).
Page 41 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 48

Appendix III: Data on 7(a), 504, and Microloan
Programs, Fiscal Years 2019–2024
Figure 9: Average Loan Amount of Microloans by Veteran Status, Fiscal Years
2019–2024
Page 42 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 49

Appendix IV: Da ta on USDA Farm Service
Appendix IV: Data on USDA Farm Service
Agency Program Loans, Fiscal Years 2019–
2024
Agency Program Loans, Fiscal Years 2019–
2024
This appendix provides data on the number and total dollar amount of
loans approved under the Direct Farm Operating, Guaranteed Farm
Operating, Direct Farm Ownership, and Guaranteed Farm Ownership
programs, disaggregated by veteran status, for fiscal years 2019 through
2024. All years cited below refer to fiscal years.
The number and dollar amount of Direct Farm Operating loans to
Direct Farm
veterans increased from 2019 to 2020, decreased in 2021 and 2022, rose
Operating Loans
slightly in 2023, and rose in 2024. Loans to nonveterans followed a
similar trend (see fig. 10).
Figure 10: Number and Amount of Direct Farm Operating Loans to Veterans and Nonveterans, Fiscal Years 2019–2024
The number and dollar amount of Guaranteed Farm Operating loans to
Guaranteed Farm
veterans increased slightly from 2019 to 2020, decreased from 2020 to
Operating Loans
2021, and rose in 2022. In 2023, the number of loans went down, and the
dollar amount went up. In 2024, the number of loans went up slightly
while the dollar amount went down. The number of loans to nonveterans
Page 43 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix IV: Da ta on USDA Farm Service
Appendix IV: Data on USDA Farm Service
Agency Program Loans, Fiscal Years 2019– |
| 2024
Agency Program Loans, Fiscal Years 2019– |
| 2024 |

## Page 50

Appendix IV: Data on USDA Farm Service
Agency Program Loans, Fiscal Years 2019–
2024
generally decreased from 2019 through 2023, then increased in 2024
(see fig. 11).
Figure 11: Number and Amount of Guaranteed Farm Operating Loans to Veterans and Nonveterans, Fiscal Years 2019–2024
Lending to veterans through the Direct Farm Ownership program
Direct Farm
fluctuated somewhat during fiscal years 2019 through 2024. The number
Ownership Loans
and dollar value of loans to nonveterans also fluctuated during the same
period (see fig. 12).
Page 44 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 51

Appendix IV: Data on USDA Farm Service
Agency Program Loans, Fiscal Years 2019–
2024
Figure 12: Number and Amount of Direct Farm Ownership Loans to Veterans and Nonveterans, Fiscal Years 2019–2024
The number and dollar amount of Guaranteed Farm Ownership loans
Guaranteed Farm
specifically to veterans increased from 2019 to 2020. From 2020 to 2021,
Ownership Loans
the number of loans decreased while the dollar amount remained steady.
In 2022 and 2023, both the number and dollar amount decreased. In
2024, the number of loans to veterans decreased while the dollar amount
increased. The number and dollar amount of Guaranteed Farm
Ownership loans to nonveterans increased from 2019 to 2020, decreased
from 2021 to 2023, and then increased in 2024 (see fig. 13).
Page 45 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 52

Appendix IV: Data on USDA Farm Service
Agency Program Loans, Fiscal Years 2019–
2024
Figure 13: Number and Amount of Guaranteed Farm Ownership Loans to Veterans and Nonveterans, Fiscal Years 2019–2024
Page 46 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 53

Appendix V : Comments from the National
Appendix V: Comments from the National
Credit Union Administration
Credit Union Administration
Page 47 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix V : Comments from the National
Appendix V: Comments from the National
Credit Union Administration |
| Credit Union Administration |

## Page 54

Appendix VI: C omments from the
Appendix VI: Comments from the Department
of Veterans Affairs
Department of Veterans Affairs
Page 48 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix VI: C omments from the
Appendix VI: Comments from the Department
of Veterans Affairs |
| Department of Veterans Affairs |

## Page 55

Appendix VI: Comments from the Department
of Veterans Affairs
Page 49 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


## Page 56

Appendix VII: G AO Contact and Staff
Appendix VII: GAO Contact and Staff
Acknowledgments
Acknowledgments
Courtney LaFountain, lafountainc@gao.gov
GAO Contact
In addition to the contact named above, Marshall Hamlett (Assistant
Staff
Director), Leah DeWolf (Analyst in Charge), Caitlin Cusati, Garrett Hillyer,
Acknowledgments
John Karikari, John Lewis, Alberto Lopez, Aku Pappoe, Marc Molino, and
DaChanel Rutherford made key contributions to this report.
Page 50 GAO-25-107561 Financial Literacy and Small Business Lending


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix VII: G AO Contact and Staff
Appendix VII: GAO Contact and Staff
Acknowledgments |
| Acknowledgments |

## Page 57

The Government Accountability Office, the audit, evaluation, and investigative
GAO’s Mission
arm of Congress, exists to support Congress in meeting its constitutional
responsibilities and to help improve the performance and accountability of the
federal government for the American people. GAO examines the use of public
funds; evaluates federal programs and policies; and provides analyses,
recommendations, and other assistance to help Congress make informed
oversight, policy, and funding decisions. GAO’s commitment to good government
is reflected in its core values of accountability, integrity, and reliability.
The fastest and easiest way to obtain copies of GAO documents at no cost is
Obtaining Copies of
through our website. Each weekday afternoon, GAO posts on its website newly
GAO Reports and released reports, testimony, and correspondence. You can also subscribe to
GAO’s email updates to receive notification of newly posted products.
Testimony
Order by Phone The price of each GAO publication reflects GAO’s actual cost of production and
distribution and depends on the number of pages in the publication and whether
the publication is printed in color or black and white. Pricing and ordering
information is posted on GAO’s website, https://www.gao.gov/ordering.htm.
Place orders by calling (202) 512-6000, toll free (866) 801-7077, or
TDD (202) 512-2537.
Orders may be paid for using American Express, Discover Card, MasterCard,
Visa, check, or money order. Call for additional information.
Connect with GAO on X, LinkedIn, Instagram, and YouTube.
Connect with GAO
Subscribe to our Email Updates. Listen to our Podcasts.
Visit GAO on the web at https://www.gao.gov.
Contact FraudNet:
To Report Fraud,
Website: https://www.gao.gov/about/what-gao-does/fraudnet
Waste, and Abuse in
Automated answering system: (800) 424-5454
Federal Programs
Sarah Kaczmarek, Managing Director, Media@gao.gov
Media Relations
A. Nicole Clowers, Managing Director, CongRel@gao.gov
Congressional
Relations
https://www.gao.gov/about/contact-us
General Inquiries
PleasePrintonRecycledPaper.

