---
title: "gao-25-107622"
processed_date: "2025-09-17T11:27:45.321485"
source_file: "gao-25-107622.pdf"
conversion_method: "pdfplumber"
---

# Document Metadata

- **Author**: U.S. Government Accountability Office, http://www.gao.gov
- **Company**: GAO
- **ContentTypeId**: 0x010100601E3C5A7646D24EB86DB2A4A3B965C1
- **CreationDate**: D:20250910173636-04'00'
- **Creator**: Acrobat PDFMaker 25 for Word
- **Keywords**: Cover Testimony takeout removed
- **ModDate**: D:20250915081041-04'00'
- **Producer**: Adobe PDF Library 25.1.143
- **SourceModified**: D:20250910210053
- **Title**: GAO-25-107622, U.S. ARMS TRANSFERS: State Department Should Improve Investigations and Reporting of Foreign Partners’ End-Use Violations
- **_dlc_DocIdItemGuid**: a22b9e03-3e5a-4a43-b39b-75c27da9a70e

---

## Page 1

United States Government Accountability Office
Report to Congressional Committees
September 2025
U.S. ARMS
TRANSFERS
State Department
Should Improve
Investigations and
Reporting of Foreign
Partners’ End-Use
Violations
GAO-25-107622


### Tables

#### Table 1

| September 2025 |
|  |

#### Table 2

| GAO-25-107622 |  |

## Page 2

U.S. ARMS TRANSFERS
Highlights State Department Should Improve Investigations and
Reporting of Foreign Partners’ End-Use Violations
GAO-25-107622 September 2025
A report to congressional committees.
For more information, contact James A. Reynolds at ReynoldsJ@gao.gov.
What GAO Found Why GAO Did This Study
The State Department is responsible for investigating and reporting end-use To enhance U.S. national security, the
violations to Congress—that is, foreign partners’ violations of requirements for U.S. government provides defense
the purpose, transfer, and security of defense articles and services they received articles and services, such as weapons
from the U.S. government. State relies primarily on the Department of Defense and military training, to dozens of
(DOD) to identify incidents that could constitute violations. As of February 2025, foreign partners around the world.
Recipients agree to comply with legal
DOD was tracking more than 150 incidents, many of them detected by DOD
end-use requirements that prohibit
security cooperation organizations (SCO) at diplomatic posts. However, GAO
using the provided articles or services
found State has not provided clear guidance to DOD defining the types of
for unauthorized purposes, transferring
incidents that warrant State’s attention. Without such guidance, SCO officials told
them to unauthorized entities, and
GAO they exercise professional judgement in deciding whether to inform State
failing to keep them secure.
about incidents. As a result, State may be unaware of potential violations it needs
to investigate. Congress included a provision in House
Report 118-301 for GAO to review State
Further, State’s investigations of potential end-use violations are inconsistent, in
and DOD procedures related to alleged
part because its guidance for conducting investigations does not establish
violations of relevant end-use
required actions or time frames. For example, for one potential violation, State requirements of defense articles and
officials gathered information, reviewed transfer agreements, and worked with services. This report examines the
SCO officials to resolve it. For another potential violation, State officials did not extent to which (1) State and DOD
take any action. Moreover, State has not consistently documented the status or identify and track potential violations,
findings of its investigations since 2019. As a result, State does not have readily (2) State investigates potential
available information about foreign partners’ compliance with arms transfer violations and communicates its
agreements. Such information could inform decisions about future arms sales. In findings to agency stakeholders, and (3)
addition, State has not shared its findings with SCO officials, who could State reports appropriate incidents to
implement measures to address violations or prevent their recurrence. Congress.
GAO reviewed laws and agency
Status of State Department Investigations Is Missing for Many Incidents That
policies for guidance on identifying,
Potentially Violated U.S. Arms Transfer Agreements as of February 2025
investigating, and reporting potential
violations to Congress. GAO also
analyzed documentation and
information about potential violations,
State’s investigations, and its reports to
Congress. In addition, GAO interviewed
agency officials in the U.S. and at 10
diplomatic posts, including during visits
to five countries that GAO selected to
Since 2019, State has reported three end-use violations to Congress, but State reflect an array of incident types and
cannot show that it determined whether most known incidents met legal reporting geographic locations.
criteria. Under law, State is required to report to Congress (1) substantial
violations of purpose, transfer, and security requirements that may have occurred What GAO Recommends
and (2) any unauthorized transfers that did occur. State documented in
GAO is making six recommendations to
memorandums its determinations for three incidents. However, State officials
State, including that it provide guidance
could not provide similar documentation for more than 150 others. State officials
to DOD for reporting incidents to State,
said they do not have formal procedures for determining whether incidents meet
update its guidance for investigating
the reporting criteria or for recording these determinations. Without guidance incidents, and develop guidance that
establishing such procedures, State cannot ensure it is reporting to Congress in establishes procedures for determining
accordance with the law. As a result, Congress may not have information to whether to report incidents to Congress.
support oversight, such as considering legislation to prohibit transfers of defense State agreed with these
articles and services to foreign partners that have violated their agreements. recommendations.
United States Government Accountability Office


### Tables

#### Table 1

|  |  | U.S. ARMS TRANSFERS |  |
|  |  | State Department Should Improve Investigations and |  |
| Highlights |  |  |  |
|  |  | Reporting of Foreign Partners’ End-Use Violations |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  | September 2025 |  |  |
| GAO-25-107622 |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

## Page 3

Contents
Letter 1
Background 3
State Largely Relies on DOD to Identify Potential Violations but
Has Not Specified Incident Types Warranting Attention 7
State Investigates Potential Violations Inconsistently and Does
Not Make Their Status and Findings Clear 15
State Has Reported Several End-Use Violations to Congress but
Cannot Show It Assessed Other Incidents 21
Conclusions 25
Recommendations 27
Agency Comments 27
Appendix I Comments from the Department of State 30
Appendix II GAO Contact and Staff Acknowledgments 34
Table
Table 1: Selected Provisions for Reporting of Foreign Partner
Violations of Transfer Agreements to Congress 22
Figures
Figure 1: Examples of U.S. Defense Articles Transferred to
Foreign Partners 3
Figure 2: Security Cooperation Organization Officials Conducting
Enhanced End-Use Monitoring Inspection of Night Vision
Devices 8
Figure 3: Seals Used in Golden Sentry End-Use Monitoring
Program 9
Figure 4: Hypothetical Examples of Violations of Arms Transfer
Agreements 12
Figure 5: Status or Findings of State Investigations Are Missing for
Many Incidents That May Have Violated Legal
Requirements for U.S. Arms Transfers 18
Figure 6: Timeline of State Department’s Determination and
Reporting to Congress of One Transfer Violation 23
Page i GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 4

Abbreviations
AECA Arms Export Control Act, as amended
DOD Department of Defense
DSCA Defense Security Cooperation Agency
FAA Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended
PM/RSAT Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, Office of Regional
Security and Arms Transfers
SCO security cooperation organization
State Department of State
This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the
United States. The published product may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety
without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain
copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be
necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately.
Page ii GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 5

Letter
441 G St. N.W.
Washington, DC 20548
September 16, 2025
Congressional Committees
To enhance U.S. national security, the U.S. government has provided
U.S. defense articles and services to more than 100 foreign partners
around the world. Presidents have used the transfer of such articles and
services to advance foreign policy goals, ranging from supporting
strategically important foreign partners to building global counterterrorism
capacity after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.
To protect U.S. military and technological advantages and advance
foreign policy objectives, and as a condition of this assistance, foreign
partners agree to end-use requirements that prohibit using the provided
articles or services for unauthorized purposes, transferring them to
unauthorized entities, and failing to keep them secure. If a foreign partner
is found to be in substantial violation of these requirements, future
transfers to those partners can be prohibited by application of U.S. law.
U.S. law requires the President to report to Congress on receipt of
information that certain types of end-use violations may have occurred
and when transfer violations have occurred.1 The President delegated
this responsibility to the Secretary of State.2 The Department of Defense’s
(DOD) Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA) and security
cooperation organizations (SCO), among others, identify potential
violations and inform the Department of State.
House Report 118-301 included a provision for us to review State and
DOD procedures related to foreign partners’ alleged violations of relevant
end-use requirements.3 In this report, we evaluate the extent to which (1)
State and DOD identify and track potential violations; (2) State
investigates these incidents and communicates its findings to relevant
stakeholders; and (3) State reports appropriate incidents to Congress.
122 U.S.C. §§ 2314(d)(2)(B), 2753(c)(2), and 2753(e).
2See Executive Order 12163, “Administration of Foreign Assistance and Related
Functions,” 44 Fed. Reg. 56673 (Sept. 29, 1979) as amended and set forth as a note to
22 U.S.C. § 2381 and Executive Order 13637, “Administration of Reformed Export
Controls,” 78 Fed. Reg. 16129 (June 13, 2013) set forth as a note to 22 U.S.C. § 2751.
3House Report 118-301 is the conference report accompanying the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024. Pub. L. No. 118-31, 137 Stat. 136 (2023).
Page 1 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 6

This review focuses on government-to-government transfers,4 such as
transfers through State’s Foreign Military Sales program under Title 22
and DOD’s Building Partner Capacity programs under Title 10.5
To address our objectives, we focused on incidents identified,
investigated, or reported to Congress from January 2019 through
February 2025. We reviewed laws and assessed agency guidance on
identifying, investigating, and reporting to Congress potential violations of
bilateral arms transfer agreements. To understand how State and DOD
have identified potential violations, we examined agency documents and
information, such as embassy memos and data from an information
module within DSCA’s Security Cooperation Information Portal. DSCA
uses this module—which this report refers to as the DSCA tracker—to
record potential violations of transfer agreements and to share
information with State and SCO officials.
In addition, to understand State and DSCA processes, we reviewed a
nongeneralizable sample of 12 potential violations that we selected from
among the incidents listed in the DSCA tracker and other incidents
identified by U.S. officials but not listed in the DSCA tracker. We selected
these incidents to illustrate, among other things, a variety of different
violation types, open and closed investigations, and incidents reported or
not reported to Congress. We used the 12 selected incidents as
examples when asking State and DSCA for information. We requested
interviews with officials of the 12 SCOs at diplomatic posts in the
countries where the selected incidents occurred, and we met with officials
of 10 SCOs.
We evaluated State’s processes for identifying, investigating, and
reporting incidents against its objectives as well as principles 3, 6, 10, 12,
4Foreign partners can also obtain U.S. defense articles and services through direct
commercial sales instead of government-to-government transfers. U.S. companies
participating in these sales obtain commercial export licenses from State, allowing them to
negotiate with, and sell directly to, foreign partners. See GAO, Export Controls: State
Needs to Improve Compliance Data to Enhance Oversight of Defense Services,
GAO-23-106379 (Washington, DC: Feb. 6, 2023).
5Statutory authority for transfers through DOD’s Building Partner Capacity programs
includes the authority to build the capacity of foreign security forces, codified at 10 U.S.C.
§ 333.
Page 2 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 7

and 15 of Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government.6 In
addition, we reviewed relevant laws and analyzed State documentation of
its reporting to Congress on potential violations. We also discussed
identifying potential violations, investigating or supporting investigations of
incidents, and reporting incidents to Congress with State, DOD, and
embassy officials. Moreover, we visited five countries with alleged end-
use violations that reflected a variety of numbers and types of incidents,
geographic locations, and presence of conflict. In these countries, we
observed, among other things, inventory checks of U.S. defense articles
provided to foreign partners.
We conducted this performance audit from June 2024 to August 2025 in
accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our
findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe that
the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our findings and
conclusions based on our audit objectives.
The United States is the world’s largest provider of defense articles and
Background
services to foreign partners. In fiscal year 2024, the total value of
transferred defense articles, security services, and security activities
reached an all-time high of $117.9 billion, according to State reporting.
(Fig. 1 shows examples of defense articles the U.S. government has
transferred to foreign partners.)
Figure 1: Examples of U.S. Defense Articles Transferred to Foreign Partners
6GAO, Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government, GAO-14-704G
(Washington, DC: September 2014). Principle 3 calls for assigning responsibility to
achieve objectives. Principle 6 states that management should define objectives clearly to
enable the identification of risks and define risk tolerances. Principle 10 states that
management should design controls activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks.
Principle 12 states that management should implement control activities through policies.
Principle 15 calls for external communication of necessary quality information to achieve
the entity’s objectives.
Page 3 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 8

Mechanisms for these transfers include the Foreign Military Sales
program, in which the U.S. government and a foreign government
negotiate an agreement for the purchase of defense articles or services.
Transfer mechanisms also include DOD’s Building Partner Capacity
programs to provide equipment and training to foreign partners’ national
security forces.
Legislative Authorities The Arms Export Control Act (AECA), as amended, provides the
President the authority to control the transfer of defense articles and
establishes congressional notification requirements for transfers of U.S.
defense articles and services to foreign entities.7 The AECA states that
no sales or deliveries may be made to a foreign partner if the partner has
previously used defense articles in a manner that substantially violates
agreed-on terms.8 A violation may be substantial in terms of either the
quantities involved or the gravity of its consequences. These terms are
generally documented in transfer agreements between the U.S. and
partner governments. If no such terms exist regarding the purposes for
which defense articles or services are used, recipients must limit their use
to those purposes set forth at section 4 in the AECA, which include
internal security, legitimate self-defense, and prevention of the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.9
The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), as amended, includes
provisions establishing eligibility requirements for the transfer of defense
articles to foreign partners. The FAA requires—subject to specified
exceptions—the termination of future transfer of defense articles if a
recipient is found to be in substantial violation of an agreement with the
7See 22 U.S.C. § ch.39.
8The AECA sets forth the process by which the President or Congress can deem a foreign
partner ineligible. The act further sets forth procedures under which foreign partners may
remain eligible for cash sales or deliveries pursuant to previous sales if the President
certifies that termination of eligibility would have a significant adverse effect on U.S.
security. A foreign partner remains ineligible until the President determines that the
violation has ceased and the country concerned has given assurances satisfactory to the
President that such a violation will not recur. See 22 U.S.C. § 2753(c).
922 U.S.C. § 2754.
Page 4 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 9

United States or otherwise uses U.S. defense articles for unauthorized
purposes.10
The AECA and the FAA establish three types of violations with regard to
U.S. defense articles and services provided to foreign partners: (1) using
an article or service for an unauthorized purpose, which this report refers
to as a purpose violation; (2) transferring an article or service to an
unauthorized entity, which this report refers to as a transfer violation; and
(3) failing to maintain the security of articles and services, which this
report refers to as a security violation.11 Either the President or Congress
may determine that a recipient is in substantial violation of a transfer
agreement with respect to these categories, thereby rendering the
recipient ineligible for continued transfers of defense articles.12 The
recipient would remain ineligible until the President determines that the
violation has ceased and the recipient has given satisfactory assurances
to the President that such a violation will not recur.
The AECA requires the President to establish a program for monitoring
the end use of defense articles and defense services sold, leased, or
exported under that act or the FAA. This monitoring program must, to the
extent practicable, be designed to provide reasonable assurance that
recipients are complying with requirements imposed by the U.S.
government on the purpose, transfer, and security of defense articles and
defense services.
Department of State’s The Secretary of State is responsible for executing foreign policy,
Role including arms transfer agreements. State ensures that foreign partners
agree to the requirements in the AECA and FAA through
• letters of offer and acceptance, in which the recipient agrees to
comply with purpose, transfer, and security requirements for the
specific items being transferred, and
• bilateral agreements, also known as Section 505 agreements, in
which the foreign partner agrees to comply with purpose, transfer, and
1022 U.S.C. § 2314.
11See 22 U.S.C. §§ 2753(c) and 2314(d).
12For sales under the AECA or for deliveries pursuant to prior AECA sales, the President
may certify that termination of a foreign partner’s eligibility would have a significant
adverse effect on U.S. security. However, such certification is not effective if Congress
adopts or has adopted a joint resolution finding that the partner country is in substantial
violation of a transfer agreement.
Page 5 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 10

security requirements for U.S. items provided under various U.S.
authorities. According to State and DOD officials, Section 505
agreements are often necessary to ensure State can monitor items
provided under DOD authorities.13
The Bureau of Political-Military Affairs’ Office of Regional Security and
Arms Transfers (PM/RSAT) oversees the Foreign Military Sales program
and other arms transfers to foreign partners, according to State’s Foreign
Affairs Manual.14 Section 3 of the AECA requires the President, who
delegated the authority to the Secretary of State, to report to Congress (1)
on receipt of information that a substantial violation of an arms transfer
agreement with respect to a U.S. item’s purpose, transfer, or security may
have occurred; and (2) when an unauthorized transfer of a U.S. item has
occurred, such as the transfer of a U.S.-provided article to another
country without U.S. approval. According to State’s website, on being
notified of a potential violation, State gathers information to confirm the
reported incident, assesses whether it constitutes a violation, and
determines any U.S. government actions needed to prevent a recurrence.
Department of Defense’s DOD, which is responsible for end-use monitoring of defense articles
Role provided under Foreign Military Sales and Title 10 authorities, conducts
this monitoring through its Golden Sentry End-Use Monitoring program.
DOD’s Security Assistance Management Manual provides guidance for
the program. DSCA and SCOs have various monitoring roles. For
example, SCO officials at U.S. diplomatic posts manage defense articles
transfer programs, liaise with foreign partner officials for defense article
transfer issues, and conduct end-use monitoring.
According to the Security Assistance Management Manual, DSCA is also
responsible for tracking reported potential violations and, when
necessary, collecting additional information about incidents and reporting
them to State for investigation.
13According to the Security Assistance Management Manual, a ratified Section 505
agreement must be in place prior to release of appropriated funds to execute a Building
Partner Capacity program.
141 FAM 410.
Page 6 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 11

To support State’s investigations of potential violations of arms transfers
State Largely Relies
agreements, PM/RSAT largely relies on DOD SCO officials to identify
on DOD to Identify
potential violations and on DSCA officials to track them. However, the
types of violations PM/RSAT expects DSCA and SCOs to report and the
Potential Violations
expected timing of these reports are unclear. Providing guidance to
but Has Not Specified
DSCA and SCOs for reporting incidents would help PM/RSAT ensure it is
informed in a timely manner about potential violations requiring
Incident Types
investigation. Such information would, in turn, give PM/RSAT and
Warranting Attention
relevant stakeholders a more accurate understanding of foreign partners’
compliance with arms transfer agreements.
State Primarily Relies on
DOD to Identify and Track
Potential Violations
State Learns of Potential PM/RSAT officials told us that they become aware of potential violations
Violations Mainly Through primarily as a result of end-use monitoring that SCOs conduct in partner
SCOs’ End-Use Monitoring countries. According to the Security Assistance Management Manual,
SCOs are required to immediately report any potential purpose, transfer,
or security violations to PM/RSAT, DSCA, and the relevant combatant
command. PM/RSAT and DSCA have dedicated e-mail accounts for
receiving information about potential violations.
Page 7 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 12

SCOs can identify potential violations through routine end-use monitoring
Limitations Affecting DOD End-Use
and enhanced end-use monitoring. (The sidebar discusses limitations
Monitoring
affecting DOD end-use monitoring that we identified while conducting
Limited access for end-use monitoring.
Several SCOs we spoke with said that work for this and prior reports.)
because of security concerns, such as active
conflict, or access limitations imposed by
foreign partners, they were unable to travel to • Routine end-use monitoring. SCO officials must conduct at least
facilities storing weapons that require one routine check of a U.S.-provided defense article each quarter.
enhanced end-use monitoring. In 2024, we
These checks are conducted during the course of other official duties.
reported that DOD had had difficulty
accessing sites to conduct enhanced end-use For example, during one of our visits to foreign military installations,
monitoring in Ukraine (see GAO-24-106289).
SCO officials observed U.S.-provided helicopters undergoing
DSCA revised the Security Assistance
Management Manual in 2022 to allow foreign maintenance. Following the visit, SCO officials completed a routine
partners to conduct inventory checks in hostile end-use monitoring report, which includes a question asking whether
environments and self-report the results to
a potential violation was reported to State, DSCA, and the combatant
complement direct observations by U.S.
officials. command. The officials noted in the report that they had not identified
Monitoring activities not designed to or reported a potential violation. In another instance, a SCO official
identify purpose violations. In 2022, we identified a potential violation after noticing markings on U.S-provided
found that end-use monitoring activities were
not designed to identify foreign partners’ vehicles that indicated the foreign partner may have transferred the
violations of transfer agreements regarding vehicles to a unit not authorized by the U.S. government, according to
the use of U.S. defense articles and services
SCO documentation.
for authorized purposes (see
GAO-23-105856). We recommended that
• Enhanced end-use monitoring. Enhanced end-use monitoring
DOD evaluate whether its Golden Sentry
program provides reasonable assurance that requires annual physical security assessments and inventory checks
DOD-provided equipment is used only for its by serial number. During an inventory check, SCO officials may
intended purpose and develop a plan to
identify violations such as insufficient security measures at storage
address any deficiencies it identifies. In
response to this recommendation, as of facilities, the loss of defense articles, or tampering with articles. For
September 2024, DOD officials said that they
example, officials of one SCO told us that a SCO official conducting
are collaborating with State to implement a
study to evaluate the Golden Sentry program. an inventory check had identified the loss of some night vision devices
Source: GAO. | GAO-25-107622 (see fig. 2).
Figure 2: Security Cooperation Organization Officials Conducting Enhanced End-
Use Monitoring Inspection of Night Vision Devices
Page 8 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


### Tables

#### Table 1

|  |  |  |
|  | Limitations Affecting DOD End-Use |  |
|  | Monitoring |  |
|  | Limited access for end-use monitoring. |  |
|  | Several SCOs we spoke with said that |  |
|  | because of security concerns, such as active |  |
|  | conflict, or access limitations imposed by |  |
|  | foreign partners, they were unable to travel to |  |
|  | facilities storing weapons that require |  |
|  | enhanced end-use monitoring. In 2024, we |  |
|  | reported that DOD had had difficulty |  |
|  | accessing sites to conduct enhanced end-use |  |
|  | monitoring in Ukraine (see GAO-24-106289). |  |
|  | DSCA revised the Security Assistance |  |
|  | Management Manual in 2022 to allow foreign |  |
|  | partners to conduct inventory checks in hostile |  |
|  | environments and self-report the results to |  |
|  | complement direct observations by U.S. |  |
|  | officials. |  |
|  | Monitoring activities not designed to |  |
|  | identify purpose violations. In 2022, we |  |
|  | found that end-use monitoring activities were |  |
|  | not designed to identify foreign partners’ |  |
|  | violations of transfer agreements regarding |  |
|  | the use of U.S. defense articles and services |  |
|  | for authorized purposes (see |  |
|  | GAO-23-105856). We recommended that |  |
|  | DOD evaluate whether its Golden Sentry |  |
|  | program provides reasonable assurance that |  |
|  | DOD-provided equipment is used only for its |  |
|  | intended purpose and develop a plan to |  |
|  | address any deficiencies it identifies. In |  |
|  | response to this recommendation, as of |  |
|  | September 2024, DOD officials said that they |  |
|  | are collaborating with State to implement a |  |
|  | study to evaluate the Golden Sentry program. |  |
|  | Source: GAO. | GAO-25-107622 |  |
|  |  |  |

## Page 13

Another SCO official told us that when he conducted inventory checks of
missiles, he always checked the seals on the missile storage containers
(see fig. 3). If the seals on the container were broken, he would check the
missile for evidence of tampering.
Figure 3: Seals Used in Golden Sentry End-Use Monitoring Program
In addition to learning of potential violations through SCOs’ end-use
monitoring, State and DSCA may obtain such information from news and
social media, foreign partners’ self-reporting, DSCA compliance
assessment visits, or other U.S. officials. For example:
• News and social media. According to the DSCA tracker, State or
DSCA became aware of 12 potential violations through news sources
or social media, including CNN, Time, The New York Times, and X
(formerly Twitter).
• Foreign partners. Foreign partners can self-report potential
violations. In 15 incidents, SCOs received reports from foreign
partners about loss of articles, storage issues, and modifications of
articles, according to the DSCA tracker. However, some foreign
partners may be more willing or able than others to self-report
potential violations, according to SCO officials.
• DSCA compliance assessment visits. DSCA may identify potential
violations during compliance assessment visits. DSCA conducts these
visits to assess SCOs’ compliance with end-use monitoring
requirements and foreign partners’ compliance with requirements in
the letters of offer and acceptance. In four instances DSCA officials
identified potential third-party transfers to unauthorized maintenance
Page 9 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 14

facilities, problems with storage security, or potential unauthorized use
of articles, according to the DSCA tracker.
• Other U.S. officials. Other U.S. officials can also provide information
to State and DSCA about potential violations. In two instances, U.S.
officials reported potential violations identified through intelligence
channels, according to the DSCA tracker. Additionally, a military
department program manager, a contractor, and a Defense
Technology Security Agency official have notified DSCA of potential
violations.
While State Does Not Track Although PM/RSAT officials said they do not systematically track potential
Potential Violations, DSCA Has violations, as of February 2025 DSCA had maintained information about
Recorded Many Incidents more than 150 incidents in its tracker, which it shares with PM/RSAT.
PM/RSAT officials told us that, in response to a recommendation we
made in 2022, they are developing a mechanism, with associated
guidance, that will allow PM/RSAT to track information related to
investigations of potential violations.15 According to PM/RSAT officials,
they plan for this mechanism to include information about the status of
investigations, resolution of potential violations, and any reporting of
potential violations to Congress. PM/RSAT officials told us that the
development of this mechanism and associated guidance has been
delayed due to competing responsibilities.
One PM/RSAT official said that he only became aware of some incidents
by reviewing DSCA’s tracker. However, an official said that not all
PM/RSAT personnel responsible for investigating potential violations had
access to the PM/RSAT e-mail account for information about potential
violations.
As of February 2025, DSCA’s tracker included 158 incidents, although it
does not include every incident reported to State by other sources. Most
of these incidents were reported to State from 2019 through 2024. DSCA
officials said that when they receive notice of a potential violation, they
15GAO, Northern Triangle: DOD and State Need Improved Policies to Address Equipment
Misuse, GAO-23-105856 (Washington, DC: Nov. 2, 2022). In October 2024, State officials
told us that they were updating guidance for recording and tracking allegations of misuse.
Page 10 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 15

record it in the tracker and share the information with State.16 PM/RSAT
officials confirmed that they have access to DSCA’s tracker. In addition,
PM/RSAT and DSCA officials said that they hold routine meetings to
discuss updates on incidents listed in the tracker. During these meetings,
PM/RSAT officials can notify DSCA of potential violations they have
learned about from other sources. However, State officials cannot add
incidents to DSCA’s tracker. Both PM/RSAT and DSCA officials told us
that DSCA’s tracker is not a complete record of reported incidents. We
identified three incidents that other sources had reported directly to
PM/RSAT and that were not listed in DSCA’s tracker.
State Has Not Defined State’s expectations of the types of incidents that warrant its attention and
Types of Incidents That of when it should be informed are unclear because PM/RSAT has not
provided guidance defining its expectations. DOD’s Security Assistance
Warrant Its Attention
Management Manual says that all potential purpose, transfer, and
security violations must be reported immediately to State and DSCA. (Fig.
4 shows hypothetical examples of such violations.)
16In 2022, we recommended that DSCA develop policies outlining how to record and track
incidents; DOD did not concur (see GAO-23-105856). In September 2024, DOD officials
stated that they had these policies in guidance. However, we maintain that to ensure that
allegations of misuse are recorded and tracked, DOD needs to develop clearer policies
describing how and when DSCA officials should record such allegations. During our
current review, we found that DSCA’s regional program managers enter information into
DSCA’s tracker differently and that, as a result, it is difficult to identify trends among
potential violations.
Page 11 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 16

Figure 4: Hypothetical Examples of Violations of Arms Transfer Agreements
PM/RSAT officials said that they do not expect to hear about every
potential infraction, such as every incident related to combat losses, but
officials’ views of what should be reported varied. A PM/RSAT official said
that if a combat loss occurred due to the carelessness of the foreign
partner, the loss could be considered a violation. Additionally, PM/RSAT
officials provided mixed perspectives on whether SCOs should inform
them of a foreign partner’s noncompliance with security requirements at
facilities storing weapons that require enhanced end-use monitoring. One
PM/RSAT official thought that SCOs should report any noncompliance
with the security requirements; another PM/RSAT official thought that
some security issues—such as a hole in a facility’s fencing—could be
addressed by the SCO and would not need to be reported to State.
Page 12 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 17

DOD guidance includes some general guidelines on what should be
reported. The Security Assistance Management Manual states that SCO
officials must notify State and DSCA of all potential unauthorized access,
unauthorized transfers, and security violations or known equipment
losses. The manual also says that SCO officials shall report “any
indication that U.S. origin defense articles are being used for
unauthorized purposes, are being tampered with or reverse engineered,
or are accessible by persons who are not officers, employees, or
agencies of the recipient government.” Other DSCA guidance for
completing enhanced end-use monitoring checklists cites two specific
examples of expectations or thresholds for reporting potential violations:
(1) if a missile was destroyed without approval and (2) if a missile
guidance control unit is missing and the foreign partner was not
authorized to remove or replace it.
However, PM/RSAT has not documented its expectations in guidance or
communicated them to officials in country, on whom PM/RSAT relies to
identify potential violations. A PM/RSAT official said that when meeting in
person with SCO officials, PM/RSAT officials may describe the types of
violations that they expect to be informed of. However, the official could
not provide any details of what such a discussion might entail. PM/RSAT
officials noted that they have competing responsibilities, limiting their time
for developing guidance related to potential end-use violations.
Without clear guidance from State, DSCA and SCOs have relied on
professional judgement to determine what to report and when to report it.
For example:
• Transfer agreements can establish physical security requirements for
defense articles, and any deviation from these requirements could be
a violation. However, SCO officials in four countries told us that if they
observed an issue with the foreign partner’s security measures at a
facility—such as a storage door without the required type of lock—
they might first work with the partner to address the issue rather than
immediately reporting it as a potential violation. In addition, according
to a DOD official, SCO officials might not inform State when night
vision devices are not properly secured, because the SCO officials
may be concerned that their reporting it as a potential violation might
disrupt the bilateral relationship.
• The Security Assistance Management Manual requires that State be
notified immediately about potential violations. However, DSCA and
SCO officials have sometimes conducted initial fact finding on the
details of an incident before reporting it to State. For example, in one
Page 13 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 18

instance, a potential violation was brought to the geographic
combatant command’s attention and, shortly thereafter, to DSCA.
DSCA, the combatant command, and the SCO corresponded to
uncover more information about the incident before notifying State. As
a result, DSCA did not notify State until more than a year after the
potential violation was initially identified. According to DSCA’s tracker,
most incidents were reported to both DSCA and PM/RSAT around the
same time. However, 17 incidents were reported to PM/RSAT more
than a month after they were reported to DSCA.
Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government states that
management should define objectives clearly to enable the identification
of risks and define risk tolerances and should externally communicate the
necessary information to achieve the entity’s objectives.17 According to
the Foreign Affairs Manual, State must maintain effective systems of
internal controls that incorporate GAO internal control standards.18
Unless State provides guidance defining what types of incidents it
expects to be informed of and when it expects to be informed, DSCA,
SCO, and other U.S. officials may not have a clear, consistent, and timely
understanding of the parameters for exercising professional judgment.
This may reduce or delay reporting or result in their informing State of
irrelevant incidents. Moreover, if relevant incidents are not reported, State
cannot ensure that it is informed of incidents it may need to investigate
and has an accurate and up-to-date understanding of a foreign partner’s
history of compliance with arms transfer agreements.
17GAO-14-704G.
182 FAM 021.1.c.
Page 14 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 19

State Investigates
Potential Violations
Inconsistently and
Does Not Make Their
Status and Findings
Clear
State Investigates PM/RSAT officials stated that they use an ad hoc approach to investigate
Potential Violations potential violations, in part because State has not established a process
or time frames for its investigations. According to a State fact sheet, the
Inconsistently
U.S. government takes all allegations of diversion or unauthorized use of
defense articles seriously and engages with partners at all levels to
ensure adherence to end-use agreements.19 Furthermore, according to
the factsheet, once notified of a potential violation, State aims to promptly
gather information to validate the report, assess whether a violation
occurred, and determine the actions the U.S. government will take to
prevent a recurrence. Yet, of the 53 open investigations on DSCA’s
tracker, 23 were reported to PM/RSAT more than 3 years ago.
PM/RSAT officials described some steps they take when investigating
incidents. According to the officials, they typically gather information
about the incident by contacting the relevant SCO, State’s Bureau of
Intelligence and Research, or other U.S. government agencies. The
officials also said they consult with State’s Office of the Legal Adviser
regarding the circumstances of the investigation.
However, according to PM/RSAT officials, they do not have a consistent
method for investigating incidents. As a result, PM/RSAT officials design
a different approach for each case. For example:
• Regarding a January 2023 incident involving the transfer of military
vehicles between units within a foreign partner’s government,
PM/RSAT requested additional information from the SCO, reviewed
the transfer agreements, and consulted with State’s Office of the
Legal Adviser. By March 2023, PM/RSAT had determined that the
incident was not a violation but should be addressed. As of April 2025,
19“End-Use Monitoring of U.S.-Origin Defense Articles,” Department of State, January 20,
2025, https://www.state.gov/end-use-monitoring-of-u-s-origin-defense-articles/.
Page 15 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 20

PM/RSAT and the SCO were continuing to work with the foreign
partner to resolve it.
• Regarding an April 2022 incident, according to DSCA’s tracker,
PM/RSAT was informed that U.S. articles, including an anti-tank
missile, had been obtained by an adversary. DSCA’s tracker showed
that the incident was reported to State in 2022 and was closed in
2024. However, although the tracker included the missile’s serial
number, the responsible PM/RSAT official told us that he had not
investigated the incident.
• Regarding a February 2020 incident, the responsible PM/RSAT
official, whom we interviewed in March 2025, had no recollection of
the alleged transfer of a U.S. military vehicle to a terrorist
organization. According to the DSCA tracker, the incident was
reported to DSCA and PM/RSAT and remained open as of February
2025. The PM/RSAT official told us that he would need more
information, likely from DSCA or the SCO, about the article’s
procurement to determine whether he should gather additional
information.
According to PM/RSAT officials, State has no guidance outlining required
State’s Process for Responding to Other
Types of Incidents Involving U.S. Defense actions or setting time frames for investigations. State’s Foreign Affairs
Articles Manual calls for maintaining effective systems of internal controls that
State has previously assigned responsibility incorporate GAO internal control standards. Standards for Internal Control
and developed guidance for gathering
information about other types of incidents in the Federal Government states that management should implement
involving U.S.-provided defense articles. control activities through policies.20 For example, with guidance from
Specifically, in 2023, State implemented the
management, each unit should determine, on the basis of the objectives
Civilian Harm Incident Response Guidance
and reporting process. This process pertains and related risks, the policies and day-to-day procedures necessary to
when State receives a report of civilian harm
operate. For other types of incidents involving U.S.-provided defense
that may have involved the use of U.S.-
provided defense articles by a foreign security articles, State has assigned responsibility and developed guidance for
force. gathering information.
State’s process includes three stages: (1)
incident analysis, which includes determining
if a U.S. article was involved; (2) policy impact Further, although PM/RSAT officials said they have investigated incidents
assessment, which includes assessing for for several years, State’s Foreign Affairs Manual does not assign this
potential violations; and (3) determining
responsibility. According to PM/RSAT officials, PM/RSAT has
necessary reporting and responsive actions.
(See GAO-22-105988 and GAO-25-107077.) investigated incidents since approximately 2019, when the Bureau of
Source: GAO. | GAO-25-107622 Political-Military Affairs directed it to investigate and report to Congress
regarding violations of AECA section 3. Previously, another bureau office,
the Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance, was assigned this
responsibility. In July 2024, the Foreign Affairs Manual still designated the
Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance as responsible for reporting
20GAO-14-704G.
Page 16 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


### Tables

#### Table 1

|  |  |  |
|  | State’s Process for Responding to Other |  |
|  | Types of Incidents Involving U.S. Defense |  |
|  | Articles |  |
|  | State has previously assigned responsibility |  |
|  | and developed guidance for gathering |  |
|  | information about other types of incidents |  |
|  | involving U.S.-provided defense articles. |  |
|  | Specifically, in 2023, State implemented the |  |
|  | Civilian Harm Incident Response Guidance |  |
|  | and reporting process. This process pertains |  |
|  | when State receives a report of civilian harm |  |
|  | that may have involved the use of U.S.- |  |
|  | provided defense articles by a foreign security |  |
|  | force. |  |
|  | State’s process includes three stages: (1) |  |
|  | incident analysis, which includes determining |  |
|  | if a U.S. article was involved; (2) policy impact |  |
|  | assessment, which includes assessing for |  |
|  | potential violations; and (3) determining |  |
|  | necessary reporting and responsive actions. |  |
|  | (See GAO-22-105988 and GAO-25-107077.) |  |
|  | Source: GAO. | GAO-25-107622 |  |
|  |  |  |

## Page 21

to Congress violations of AECA section 3. The manual was subsequently
revised to eliminate this provision. However, as of September 2025, the
manual does not designate any office as responsible for investigating
AECA section 3 violations or reporting them to Congress. Standards for
Internal Control in the Federal Government states that management
should assign responsibility to achieve the entity’s objectives.21
Without guidance establishing required actions and time frames for
investigating incidents, PM/RSAT officials may not consistently and
promptly gather evidence, confirm whether a violation occurred, and
determine whether follow-up actions could prevent another violation.
Further, until State updates the Foreign Affairs Manual to assign
PM/RSAT the responsibility for investigating AECA section 3 violations, it
cannot be assured that PM/RSAT officials will prioritize this responsibility
appropriately. Timely investigations into whether a foreign partner has
violated transfer agreements are important to inform deliberations about
future arms transfers. For example, as of February 2025, PM/RSAT had
not completed its investigation of a foreign partner’s potential tampering
with a U.S.-provided weapon in November 2023, and the U.S.
government was considering providing the foreign partner with similar
additional weapons.
Status and Findings of
State’s Investigations Are
Unclear and Not Shared
with DSCA and SCOs
Status and Findings of State’s Although PM/RSAT officials told us that they look into every incident of
Investigations Are Often which they are notified, they could not readily provide the number of
Unclear incidents reviewed from 2019 through 2024, the status of those incidents,
or the findings of their investigations. According to officials, although
DSCA’s potential violations tracker is incomplete, it contains the best
available information about the incidents communicated to State. As of
February 2025, DSCA’s tracker included 105 closed cases and 53 open
cases, but PM/RSAT officials were unable to provide the number of these
incidents they had reviewed.
Although PM/RSAT officials cannot add incidents to DSCA’s tracker, they
have the ability to update it with information about the status or findings of
21GAO-14-704G.
Page 17 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 22

their investigations. However, they do not always do so. As of February
2025, the tracker included information about the status of PM/RSAT’s
open investigations or the findings of completed investigations for about
half of the incidents listed (see fig. 5).
Figure 5: Status or Findings of State Investigations Are Missing for Many Incidents
That May Have Violated Legal Requirements for U.S. Arms Transfers
Note: The data shown reflect State Department information about 158 incidents recorded in a
Defense Security Cooperation Agency system as of February 2025.
For 82 incidents, the tracker included some information about the status
or findings of PM/RSAT’s investigations. It showed 20 of those incidents
as open investigations and provided some information about their status,
such as whether PM/RSAT had requested information from the
responsible SCO. The tracker showed 62 investigations as completed
and provided some information about PM/RSAT’s findings, such as
corrective actions taken by the foreign partner. However, for 30 of the
completed investigations, the tracker did not include clear findings, such
as whether State had determined that a violation occurred.
For 76 incidents, the tracker included no information about the status or
findings of PM/RSAT’s investigations. It showed 33 of the investigations
as open but did not indicate their status to help officials understand
whether PM/RSAT needed more information. The tracker showed the
remaining 43 investigations as completed but did not include information
Page 18 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 23

about PM/RSAT’s findings of whether a violation had occurred. Further, in
two instances where PM/RSAT confirmed a violation, PM/RSAT officials
had not updated the DSCA tracker to include State’s findings.
For the 12 foreign partners involved in the 12 incidents we selected, U.S.
officials approved at least $46 billion in new arms sales while the
incidents were under investigation. However, when we asked for
documentation of investigations of the 12 incidents we had selected for
our review, PM/RSAT was unable to provide any documentation of
findings or actions related to 10 of the incidents. Officials told us that they
do not document their findings for most completed investigations.
Documentation PM/RSAT provided for two of the 12 incidents showed the
following:
• For one of the 12 incidents, the U.S. embassy had reported that an
unauthorized non-state actor was using U.S.-provided vehicles.
PM/RSAT told us they determined that the incident was a violation.
PM/RSAT documented its determination in a memorandum approved
by the Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security.
• For another of the 12 incidents, DSCA reported that an aircraft was
potentially being used for unauthorized purposes. PM/RSAT officials
told us they had determined that the incident was not a violation
because the letter of offer and acceptance had not clearly defined
limitations on the use of the aircraft. PM/RSAT documented its
determination in a diplomatic cable to the U.S. embassy instructing
the embassy to take steps to clarify the requirements.
PM/RSAT also provided documentation of investigations of two incidents
unrelated to the 12 we selected. PM/RSAT identified one of these
incidents as a transfer violation, according to a State memorandum. As a
result of the violation, State decided to pause security assistance to the
foreign partner and reprogram millions of unobligated dollars it had
planned to provide to that country. PM/RSAT identified a second incident
as a security violation, according to a State memorandum and a letter to
the foreign partner. PM/RSAT confirmed that the partner had relocated
and operated U.S.-provided fighter jets at bases that the U.S. government
had not approved.
During the Foreign Military Sales process, U.S. embassy officials are
required to assess a foreign partner’s ability to use requested defense
articles in accordance with their intended purpose and the partner’s ability
to safeguard sensitive technology. Moreover, the Foreign Affairs Manual
requires bureaus to ensure that personnel create, capture, and preserve
Page 19 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 24

records containing adequate and proper documentation of State’s
decisions.22 Without current, reliable, and readily available documentation
of the status and findings of PM/RSAT’s investigations, embassy officials
may lack awareness of any prior incidents when assessing a partner for
future arms sales. As a result, they may approve additional arms transfers
to foreign partners that have demonstrated an inability or unwillingness to
comply with end-use requirements.
State Does Not Consistently PM/RSAT does not consistently communicate findings of its
Communicate Investigation investigations to DSCA or SCOs. According to PM/RSAT officials, they do
Findings to DSCA and SCOs not consistently update the DSCA tracker when they determine whether a
violation occurred. As of February 2025, State had entered no information
about its findings for 43 of 105 closed cases on DSCA’s tracker. Further,
according to State and DOD officials, they do not discuss the findings of
every open incident during their regular meetings. Officials in one SCO
told us that State had not communicated investigation results to them or
updated DSCA’s tracker and that, as a result, they assumed PM/RSAT
had determined that the incidents were not violations.
DSCA officials told us that they consider previous violations, among other
factors, when deciding where to conduct their annual compliance
assessment visits. The Security Assistance Management Manual requires
SCOs to monitor confirmed end-use violations and take precautionary
measures to reduce the risk of repeat violations. However, PM/RSAT
officials told us that communicating results of their investigations to DSCA
and SCOs was not always a priority for them because their office
balances several other responsibilities.
According to the Foreign Affairs Manual, State must maintain effective
systems of internal controls that incorporate GAO internal control
standards.23 Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government
states that management should communicate quality information
externally through reporting lines so that external parties can help the
entity achieve its objectives and address related risks.24 In addition,
DOD’s Security Assistance Management Manual—which State helped to
225 FAM 418.8.
232 FAM 021.1.c.
24GAO-14-704G.
Page 20 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 25

draft—states that PM/RSAT will communicate its findings to all relevant
parties, including DSCA, SCOs, and others.
Without accurate and complete information from PM/RSAT about the
status and results of its investigations—in particular, confirmation of
violations—DSCA, SCO, and other U.S. officials may not know whether
foreign partners have violated purpose, transfer, and security
requirements. Several SCO officials we spoke with were unfamiliar with
the status of investigations in the countries where they conducted
monitoring. As a result, they may not take steps to address violations or
implement precautionary measures, such as targeting compliance
assessment visits or end-use monitoring, to reduce the risk of recurring
violations.
State Has Reported
Several End-Use
Violations to
Congress but Cannot
Show It Assessed
Other Incidents
State Has Informed Since January 2019, State has reported three end-use violations to
Congress of Three End- Congress after determining they were violations. The AECA establishes
two requirements for when the President must report potential end-use
Use Violations Since 2019
violations to Congress (see table 1). The President delegated this
responsibility to the Secretary of State in Executive Order 13637.
Page 21 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 26

Table 1: Selected Provisions for Reporting of Foreign Partner Violations of Transfer Agreements to Congress
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
Section 3(c) Section 3(e)
Types of violation Substantial violation of requirements regarding the Any violation of requirement regarding the transfer of
purpose, transfer, and security of U.S. defense articles U.S. defense articles
Confirmation of Not required. The State Department must report any Required. State must report any unauthorized transfer
violation substantial violation that “may have occurred.” that “has been made.”
Timing of report State must report “promptly upon the receipt of State “shall report such information immediately.”
information.”
Recipients of Congressional committees House Speaker, House Committee on Foreign Affairs,
report Senate Committee on Foreign Relations
Source: GAO analysis of 22 U.S.C. §§ 2753 and 2314. | GAO-25-107622
Note: The descriptions shown are summaries. The full legal text can be found in the statutes cited.
According to the Arms Export Control Act (AECA), as amended, a violation is measured as
substantial “either in terms of quantities or in terms of the gravity of the consequences regardless of
the quantities involved.” 22 U.S.C. § 2753. A similar requirement exists within Section 505 of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended. 22 U.S.C. § 2314.
In Executive Order 13637, the President delegated to the Secretary of State the responsibility to
report to Congress as required in AECA Section 3.
From January 2019 through February 2025, State reported three
incidents to Congress informally or formally, after determining that each
incident was a violation.
• In one incident, U.S.-provided articles were not appropriately secured.
State determined the incident was a nonsubstantial security violation
and informally briefed Congress about it, according to a State
memorandum.
• In two incidents, which occurred in the same country, U.S.-provided
vehicles were operated by an adversarial nonstate actor. State
determined that both incidents were nonsubstantial transfer violations
and submitted formal, written reports to Congress. Figure 6 illustrates
the 30-week timeline for State’s making the determination for the
second of these incidents and reporting it to Congress.
Page 22 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 27

Figure 6: Timeline of State Department’s Determination and Reporting to Congress of One Transfer Violation
State Cannot Show It For most of the incidents PM/RSAT has learned of since 2019, it does not
Assessed Whether Most have readily available information showing that it assessed whether to
report them to Congress or showing any determinations it made. As of
Incidents Identified Since
February 2025, PM/RSAT officials were aware of more than 150
2019 Should Be Reported
incidents, including those listed in DSCA’s tracker or reported to
to Congress PM/RSAT directly by other sources. Officials recalled some deliberations
about the 12 incidents we selected for our review. However, PM/RSAT
did not have readily available information about any assessments of
whether incidents—other than the three violations State has reported to
Congress since 2019—met the statutory reporting criteria. Entries in the
DSCA tracker noted that some of these incidents may have resulted in
the loss of dozens of sensitive items. Moreover, PM/RSAT officials could
not confirm that five apparently unauthorized transfers listed in DSCA’s
tracker had been reported to Congress.
Further, PM/RSAT did not consistently record its determinations whether
to report incidents to Congress. State recorded in memorandums its
determinations for the three incidents it has reported to Congress since
2019, which included one of the 12 we had selected. However, PM/RSAT
Page 23 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 28

officials were unable to provide documentation of PM/RSAT’s
determinations whether the other 11 selected incidents met the statutory
reporting criteria. Officials told us that they had struggled to respond to
our requests for information, in part because they do not maintain official
records. Instead, to find information, they relied on searching email
correspondence, which could be lost if an official departed State.
PM/RSAT officials described some steps they might take when assessing
whether incidents should be reported to Congress. Although the AECA
and FAA require State to report to Congress promptly on receipt of
information that a substantial violation related to purpose, transfer, or
security may have occurred, PM/RSAT officials said they typically do not
consider whether to report to Congress until after confirming that a
violation did occur. PM/RSAT officials said that if they collected sufficient
evidence of a violation, they would consult with State’s Office of the Legal
Adviser regarding the circumstances of the incident. They would then
prepare a memo for the Under Secretary for Arms Control and
International Security. If the under secretary determined the violation was
substantial, State would report it to Congress. Officials said that although
determining whether an end-use violation was substantial is a subjective
process, they might consider factors such as harm to the United States,
effect on foreign relations, safeguarding of technology, and any prior
violations by the foreign partner.
However, PM/RSAT officials said they do not have guidance for
determining whether an incident should be reported to Congress and for
recording these determinations. Specifically, State does not have
guidance that clarifies the types of incidents that should be reported to
Congress or the steps required to make such a determination, according
to PM/RSAT officials.25 Additionally, officials said there is no formal
process for documenting their determinations. Although PM/RSAT
officials said that a foreign partner’s history would influence their
determination of whether a violation was substantial, the office has not
maintained consistent records of past violations.
State’s Foreign Affairs Manual requires bureaus to, among other things,
ensure that personnel create, capture, and preserve records containing
25For one of the three documented violations that State reported to Congress, PM/RSAT
attached a 1993 memorandum that outlines procedures for providing information to the
Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security. However, the other two
documented cases did not reference the 1993 memo and PM/RSAT officials whom we
interviewed said they were not aware of it.
Page 24 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 29

adequate and proper documentation of State’s decisions.26 Also,
Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government states that (a)
management should establish structure, responsibility, and authority that
enable the organization to comply with applicable laws and (b)
management should implement control activities through policies.27 For
example, each unit, with guidance from management, determines the
policies and day-to-day procedures necessary to operate on the basis of
the objectives and related risks. In addition, Standards for Internal Control
in the Federal Government calls for management to design control
activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks. This should include
clearly documenting internal control and all transactions and other
significant events in a manner that allows the documentation to be readily
available for examination.
Without guidance establishing procedures for determining whether an
incident must be reported to Congress and for recording its
determinations, State does not have reasonable assurance that it is
reporting to Congress in accordance with law. Moreover, PM/RSAT
officials may be unaware of previous incidents. As a result, State may fail
to inform Congress of incidents that call into question a foreign partner’s
willingness and ability to adhere to agreements or safeguard U.S.
technology. Consequently, Congress may not have information that would
support its oversight of U.S. arms transfers to foreign partners, including
the possibility of legislation to prohibit future transfers to foreign partners
that violated agreements.
Providing U.S. defense articles and services to foreign partners can
Conclusions
enhance U.S. national security. However, this assistance may
compromise U.S. military and technological advantages if foreign partners
fail to keep the defense articles appropriately secure or if they transfer
them to U.S. adversaries. Moreover, the U.S. government maintains a
foreign policy interest in partners’ uses of the articles or services. For
these reasons, foreign partners must agree to safeguard U.S. technology
and to use the articles and services for only authorized purposes.
Knowledge that a partner has violated those requirements informs U.S.
government decisions whether to supply the partner with additional
defense articles and services.
265 FAM 418.8.
27GAO-14-704G. According to the Foreign Affairs Manual, State will implement internal
controls (2 FAM 021c).
Page 25 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 30

Yet not all violations pose the same risks to the United States. For
example, neglecting to use the specified door lock would violate agreed-
on security measures but likely would not present the same risk as
transferring weapons to unauthorized military units. However, without
guidance from State, DSCA and SCO officials do not have a clear
understanding of what types of incidents warrant PM/RSAT’s attention
and when it expects to be informed. As a result, State may not have an
accurate and up-to-date understanding of foreign partners’ compliance
history and cannot be assured that U.S. defense articles are used only for
authorized purposes, remain in the custody of the appropriate foreign
military organization, and are properly secured.
Further, PM/RSAT conducts investigations of potential violations on an ad
hoc basis. Unless State provides guidance establishing required actions
and timeframes for investigating incidents, it will not have reasonable
assurance that its staff will consistently and promptly gather evidence,
verify violations, and determine any actions needed to prevent their
recurrence. Also, until it designates, in the Foreign Affairs Manual,
PM/RSAT as responsible for investigating potential violations, State will
not have reasonable assurance that PM/RSAT staff will prioritize this
responsibility appropriately and investigate each potentially substantial
violation.
In addition, without readily available documentation of the status and
findings of PM/RSAT’s investigations, U.S. officials may not know about
prior incidents when assessing a partner for future arms sales. As a
result, they may approve additional arms transfers to foreign partners
without awareness of foreign partners’ past practices, such as
noncompliance with bilateral transfer agreements.
Moreover, unless PM/RSAT communicates the status and results of its
investigations—in particular, confirmation that a violation has occurred—
to DSCA, SCOs, and other U.S. stakeholders, they may not take steps to
address violations or implement measures to reduce the risk of repeat
violations.
Finally, without guidance establishing procedures for determining whether
to report violations to Congress and for documenting each determination,
PM/RSAT cannot ensure that it is reporting to Congress consistently, in
accordance with the law, potential and actual violations of bilateral arms
transfer agreements. As a result, Congress may not have access to
information needed to support its oversight of U.S. security assistance.
Page 26 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 31

We are making the following six recommendations to the Secretary of
Recommendations
State:
The Secretary of State should ensure that the Director of PM/RSAT, in
consultation with DOD, provides guidance to officials at DSCA and
relevant embassies defining the types of incidents that qualify as potential
violations of arms transfer agreements and establishing timelines for
informing PM/RSAT about potential violations. (Recommendation 1)
The Secretary of State should ensure that the Director of PM/RSAT, in
consultation with DOD, develops guidance establishing required actions
and timeframes for investigating potential violations of arms transfer
agreements. (Recommendation 2)
The Secretary of State should ensure that the Director of PM/RSAT
updates the Foreign Affairs Manual to ensure that responsibility for
investigating potential violations of arms transfer agreements is assigned
as appropriate and documented in policy. (Recommendation 3)
The Secretary of State should ensure that the Director of PM/RSAT
documents the status and findings of its investigations related to potential
violations of arms transfer agreements. (Recommendation 4)
The Secretary of State should ensure that the Director of PM/RSAT
consistently communicates to DSCA, SCOs, and other agency
stakeholders the status and findings of its investigations, including
determinations of whether reported incidents constituted violations of
arms transfer agreements. (Recommendation 5)
The Secretary of State should ensure that the Director of PM/RSAT
develops guidance establishing procedures for determining whether, in
accordance with AECA sections 3(c) and 3(e), State should report an
incident to Congress and for documenting these determinations.
(Recommendation 6)
We provided a draft of this report to the Departments of State and
Agency Comments
Defense for review and comment. State provided written comments that
we have reproduced in appendix I. State concurred with our
recommendations and acknowledged that it would be taking steps to
implement them. State and DOD also provided technical comments that
we incorporated as appropriate.
Page 27 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 32

We are sending copies of this report to the appropriate congressional
committees, the Secretaries of Defense and State, and other interested
parties. In addition, the report is available at no charge on the GAO
website at https://www.gao.gov.
If you or your staff have any questions about this report, please contact
me at ReynoldsJ@gao.gov. Contact points for our Offices of
Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page
of this report. GAO staff who made key contributions to this report are
listed in appendix II.
James A. Reynolds
Acting Director, International Affairs and Trade
Page 28 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 33

List of Committees
The Honorable Roger F. Wicker
Chairman
The Honorable Jack Reed
Ranking Member
Committee on Armed Services
United States Senate
The Honorable James E. Risch
Chairman
The Honorable Jeanne Shaheen
Ranking Member
Committee on Foreign Relations
United States Senate
The Honorable Mike Rogers
Chairman
The Honorable Adam Smith
Ranking Member
Committee on Armed Services
House of Representatives
The Honorable Brian Mast
Chairman
The Honorable Gregory Meeks
Ranking Member
Committee on Foreign Affairs
House of Representatives
Page 29 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 34

Appendix I : Comments from the Department
Appendix I: Comments from the Department of
State
of State
Page 30 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix I : Comments from the Department
Appendix I: Comments from the Department of
State |
| of State |

## Page 35

Appendix I: Comments from the Department of
State
Page 31 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 36

Appendix I: Comments from the Department of
State
Page 32 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 37

Appendix I: Comments from the Department of
State
Page 33 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


## Page 38

Appendix II: GA O Contact and Staff
Appendix II: GAO Contact and Staff
Acknowledgments
Acknowledgments
James A. Reynolds, ReynoldsJ@gao.gov
GAO Contact
In addition to the contact named above, Miriam Carroll Fenton (Assistant
Staff
Director), Brandon L. Hunt (Analyst in Charge), Naina Azimov, Neil
Acknowledgments
Doherty, Mark Dowling, Jeffrey Larson, Reid Lowe, Amarica Rafanelli,
and Cameron Cheam Shapiro made key contributions to this report.
Page 34 GAO-25-107622 U.S. Arms Transfers


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix II: GA O Contact and Staff
Appendix II: GAO Contact and Staff
Acknowledgments |
| Acknowledgments |

## Page 39

The Government Accountability Office, the audit, evaluation, and investigative
GAO’s Mission
arm of Congress, exists to support Congress in meeting its constitutional
responsibilities and to help improve the performance and accountability of the
federal government for the American people. GAO examines the use of public
funds; evaluates federal programs and policies; and provides analyses,
recommendations, and other assistance to help Congress make informed
oversight, policy, and funding decisions. GAO’s commitment to good government
is reflected in its core values of accountability, integrity, and reliability.
The fastest and easiest way to obtain copies of GAO documents at no cost is
Obtaining Copies of
through our website. Each weekday afternoon, GAO posts on its website newly
GAO Reports and released reports, testimony, and correspondence. You can also subscribe to
GAO’s email updates to receive notification of newly posted products.
Testimony
Order by Phone The price of each GAO publication reflects GAO’s actual cost of production and
distribution and depends on the number of pages in the publication and whether
the publication is printed in color or black and white. Pricing and ordering
information is posted on GAO’s website, https://www.gao.gov/ordering.htm.
Place orders by calling (202) 512-6000, toll free (866) 801-7077, or
TDD (202) 512-2537.
Orders may be paid for using American Express, Discover Card, MasterCard,
Visa, check, or money order. Call for additional information.
Connect with GAO on X, LinkedIn, Instagram, and YouTube.
Connect with GAO
Subscribe to our Email Updates. Listen to our Podcasts.
Visit GAO on the web at https://www.gao.gov.
Contact FraudNet:
To Report Fraud,
Website: https://www.gao.gov/about/what-gao-does/fraudnet
Waste, and Abuse in
Automated answering system: (800) 424-5454
Federal Programs
Sarah Kaczmarek, Managing Director, Media@gao.gov
Media Relations
A. Nicole Clowers, Managing Director, CongRel@gao.gov
Congressional
Relations
https://www.gao.gov/about/contact-us
General Inquiries
PleasePrintonRecycledPaper.

