---
title: "gao-25-107574"
processed_date: "2025-09-17T11:27:36.791929"
source_file: "gao-25-107574.pdf"
conversion_method: "pdfplumber"
---

# Document Metadata

- **Author**: U.S. Government Accountability Office, http://www.gao.gov
- **Company**: GAO
- **ContentTypeId**: 0x010100601E3C5A7646D24EB86DB2A4A3B965C1
- **CreationDate**: D:20250909134303-04'00'
- **Creator**: Acrobat PDFMaker 25 for Word
- **ModDate**: D:20250910153358-04'00'
- **Producer**: Adobe PDF Library 25.1.143
- **SourceModified**: D:20250909174210
- **Title**: GAO-25-107574, U.S. AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION: Strategic Approach Needed to Mitigate Fraud Risks
- **_dlc_DocIdItemGuid**: a22b9e03-3e5a-4a43-b39b-75c27da9a70e

---

## Page 1

United States Government Accountability Office
Report to Congressional Requesters
September 2025
U.S. AFRICAN
DEVELOPMENT
FOUNDATION
Strategic Approach
Needed to Mitigate
Fraud Risks
GAO-25-107574


### Tables

#### Table 1

| September 2025 |
|  |

#### Table 2

| GAO-25-107574 |  |

## Page 2

U.S. AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
Highlights Strategic Approach Needed to Mitigate Fraud Risks
GAO-25-107574 September 2025
A report to congressional requesters.
For more information, contact: Latesha Love-Grayer at lovegrayerl@gao.gov.
What GAO Found Why GAO Did This Study
The U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF), as part of its overall internal Established in 1980 as a nonprofit
controls, had some policies and procedures to mitigate fraud, waste, and abuse, government corporation, USADF has
but no strategic approach, from fiscal year 2020 through 2024. USADF did have aimed to support African-led
conflict of interest rules, ethics training, and some financial controls; however, enterprises, while addressing
many of the related policies were outdated, not centrally located, and did not challenges around food insecurity,
insufficient energy access, and
reflect actual practices. The President has indicated his intention to close USADF
unemployment, particularly among
in his fiscal year 2026 budget request, and Congress has approved a partial
women and youth. In fiscal year 2024,
rescission of USADF’s fiscal year 2025 funding. However, no final decisions
Congress appropriated $45 million to
about the future of USADF have been made as of July 2025. If USADF continues
USADF, which also received funds from
to operate, an effective agency-wide internal control environment—where
other sources.
management uses processes to help an entity consistently and effectively
achieve its objectives—could help USADF detect and mitigate potential fraud, USADF has faced allegations of fraud,
waste, and abuse. waste, and abuse, and the Office of
Inspector General has an ongoing
USADF has taken some steps but has implemented few leading practices for
investigation into USADF. GAO was
managing fraud risks. For example, USADF did not have a dedicated individual asked to review fraud risk management
or entity to lead fraud risk management activities and had not followed leading at USADF. This report examines the
practices to plan and conduct regular fraud risk assessments or to develop a extent that USADF (1) had policies to
strategy to mitigate them. Without strategically and systematically implementing systematically prevent, detect, and
leading practices for managing fraud risks, USADF is more vulnerable to fraud. respond to the risk of fraud, waste and
abuse, (2) followed leading practices for
U.S. African Development Foundation Operates Throughout Africa managing fraud risk, and (3) had
policies to ensure funding for program
and operational awards were used to
achieve its mission.
GAO reviewed relevant laws and
agency documents; interviewed USADF
officials in Washington, DC, Zambia,
and Nigeria; and conducted a site visit
to USADF grantees in Zambia.
What GAO Recommends
GAO is making four recommendations
for USADF or any entity assuming
GAO also found that USADF had some policies and procedures to ensure award
responsibility for its program. These
funds were used appropriately, but they were incomplete, and most were
include, implement policies for an
outdated. For example, many policies guiding the use of grants were outdated or
effective internal control environment for
undocumented, which opens the door for the misuse of funds. Further, GAO
managing fraud risks, waste, and
found that there were instances when USADF may have used an award type that
abuse; and establish a strategic
did not align with legal requirements. Without adequate award policies and
approach to managing fraud risks
procedures and trained procurement staff, USADF could not ensure that it consistent with leading practices, such
appropriately used funds to achieve its mission. as developing a plan outlining how the
program will respond to identified fraud.
USADF concurred with our
recommendations.
United States Government Accountability Office


### Tables

#### Table 1

|  | U.S. AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
Strategic Approach Needed to Mitigate Fraud Risks |
| Highlights |  |
|  |  |
|  | September 2025 |
| GAO-25-107574 |  |
|  |  |

#### Table 2

| U.S. AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION |
| Strategic Approach Needed to Mitigate Fraud Risks |

## Page 3

Contents
Letter 1
Background 4
USADF Had Outdated Policies and Procedures to Mitigate Fraud,
Waste, and Abuse and No Strategic Approach 19
USADF Had Not Implemented Many of the Leading Practices for
Managing Fraud Risks 27
USADF Had Inadequate Policies, Procedures, and Practices to
Ensure the Appropriate Use of Award Funds 41
Conclusions 50
Recommendations for Executive Action 51
Agency Comments 51
Appendix I Objectives, Scope, and Methodology 53
Appendix II Comments from the U.S. African Development Foundation 58
Appendix III GAO Contact and Staff Acknowledgments 60
Tables
Table 1: U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) Top
Funded Countries, Fiscal Years 2020–2024 13
Table 2: U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) Had Not
Fully Followed Leading Practices in Its Efforts to Create
an Antifraud Culture and an Antifraud Entity, Fiscal Years
2020–2024 28
Table 3: U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) Had Not
Followed Leading Practices in Its Efforts to Implement a
Strategy to Assess Fraud Risks, Fiscal Years 2020–2024 30
Table 4: U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) Had Not
Fully Followed Leading Practices in Its Efforts to Design
and Implement a Strategy to Mitigate Fraud, Fiscal Years
2020–2024 34
Figures
Figure 1: U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF)
Agriculture Grant in Zambia 5
Page i GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 4

Figure 2: U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) Grant
for Women’s Cooking Oil Business in Zambia 7
Figure 3: U.S. African Development Foundation High-level
Organizational Chart, as of January 2025 8
Figure 4: U.S. African Development Foundation Had Grant
Programs in 23 Countries and a Presence in 19
Countries in Africa, as of January 2025 10
Figure 5: U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) Annual
Budget by Funding Source, Fiscal Years 2020–2024 12
Figure 6: Fraud, Waste, and Abuse Definitions and Examples 15
Figure 7: The Government Accountability Office’s (GAO)
Framework for Managing Fraud Risks in Federal
Programs 17
Figure 8: Timeline of Developments at U.S. African Development
Foundation (USADF) in 2025 18
Figure 9: U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) Grant
Process 43
Page ii GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 5

Abbreviations
ARC Department of Treasury, Administrative Resource
Center
CAG Cooperative agreement grants
CAP Cooperative agreement partnerships
CEO Chief Executive Officer
CFO Chief Financial Officer
COR Contracting Officer’s Representative
CPC Country Program Coordinator
CPO Chief Program Officer
ERM Enterprise Risk Management
FAR Federal Acquisition Regulation
FY Fiscal Year
OIG Office of Inspector General
OMB Office of Management and Budget
PSC Personal Services Contract
USADF United States African Development Foundation
USAID United States Agency for International
Development
This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the
United States. The published product may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety
without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain
copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be
necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately.
Page iii GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 6

Letter
441 G St. N.W.
Washington, DC 20548
September 15, 2025
The Honorable James E. Risch
Chairman
Committee on Foreign Relations
United States Senate
The Honorable Christopher A. Coons
United States Senate
The Honorable Tim Scott
United States Senate
The U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) invested more than
$140 million dollars directly in more than 1,000 African-led community
organizations and entrepreneurs between fiscal years 2019 and 2023,
according to USADF documents. USADF investments aimed to promote
local economic growth by increasing incomes, while addressing some of
Africa’s biggest challenges with food insecurity, insufficient energy
access, and unemployment, particularly among women and youth. In
2024, over one billion people worldwide were living in poverty,
approximately half of whom reside in Sub-Saharan Africa, according to
the United Nations Development Program.
However, USADF—a small agency with approximately 40 staff
headquartered in Washington, D.C., and operating in 19 African
countries, as of January 2025—has faced allegations of fraud, waste, and
abuse originating from former staff. These allegations include reports on
the misuse of official funds, fraudulent spending, conflicts of interest, and
inappropriate, abusive, and discriminatory management practices. The
U.S. Agency for International Development’s (USAID) Office of Inspector
General (OIG) has an ongoing investigation into USADF.1 In addition,
some members of Congress have expressed concern regarding USADF
operations.
Fraud, waste, and abuse pose a significant risk to the integrity of federal
programs. Federal guidance has focused on the need for agencies to
1USAID OIG provides inspector general services to USADF, and is authorized to
supervise, direct, and control audit and investigative activities relating to programs and
operations of USADF. Pub. L. No. 106–113, § 205, app. G, title II, subtitle A, 113 Stat.
1501, 1501A–422 (Nov. 29, 1999).
Page 1 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 7

take a strategic approach to managing risks, including fraud.2 Managers
of U.S. agencies are responsible for preventing, detecting, and
responding to fraud risks in their effort to fulfill their mission.3 How fraud
risk is managed is influenced by factors such as an entity’s size, its
resources, the maturity of the program, and management’s experience in
managing fraud risk. In addition, a dangerous operating environment can
limit personnel’s access to certain geographic areas, which can result in
lack of in-person oversight. This, in turn, increases the risk that
assistance will be misused or diverted through fraud.
You asked us to review fraud risk management at USADF. This report
examines the extent to which USADF (1) had policies and procedures in
place to strategically prevent, detect, and respond to fraud, waste, and
abuse, (2) followed leading practices for managing fraud risks, and (3)
had policies and procedures to ensure funding for program and
operational awards were used to achieve its mission.4
To examine the extent to which USADF had policies and procedures to
strategically prevent, detect, and respond to fraud, waste, and abuse, we
reviewed relevant laws and regulations, and agency documents and
guidance outlining USADF policies and processes related to internal
controls. We interviewed USADF officials in Washington, D.C., including
the Board of Directors, and officials responsible for finance and
administration, audit, and program oversight about internal control
policies and processes. Our review covered USADF activities from fiscal
year 2020 through 2024. Where possible, we provided information
updated to fiscal year 2025.
We conducted case studies of two countries: Zambia and Nigeria. We
reviewed documents and conducted interviews with program managers at
headquarters, Country Program Coordinators, implementing partner staff,
and grant recipients. We also traveled to Zambia where we interviewed
2See, for example, Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular No. A-123,
Management’s Responsibility for Enterprise Risk Management and Internal Control (July
15, 2016).
3GAO, A Framework for Managing Fraud Risks in Federal Programs, GAO-15-593SP
(Washington, D.C.: July 28, 2015).
4For the purposes of this report, policy is a written document that establishes a standard
by which the institution manages its affairs, and process is a description of the operational
processes necessary to implement policy.
Page 2 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 8

implementing partners and grant recipients and observed some
businesses funded by USADF grants.
To assess the extent to which USADF followed leading practices for
managing fraud risks, we analyzed agency documents and interviewed
staff at both headquarters and in our two case study countries to learn
about USADF policies and staff understanding of those policies and
procedures. We compared USADF’s policies and procedures against
selected leading practices identified in GAO’s Fraud Risk Framework (the
fraud risk framework).5 We selected at least one leading practice from
each of the following components of the fraud risk framework: commit to
combating fraud, assess fraud risk, and design and implement a strategy
for mitigating risk. Based on our findings from the first three components
of the fraud risk framework, we did not assess whether USADF
implemented the fourth component of the framework because we
determined it was not applicable.6
To assess the extent to which USADF had policies and procedures to
ensure funding for program and operational awards were used to achieve
its mission, we examined relevant policies and procedures and
interviewed USADF staff in headquarters and in our two case-study
countries. We analyzed documents and interviewed officials from the
Department of Treasury’s Administrative Resource Center (ARC), who
supported USADF contracting. We also selected and reviewed specific
program and operational awards at headquarters and in our two case
study countries during the fiscal years covered in our review. See
appendix I for more information about our objectives, scope, and
methodology.
It is important to note that the status of USADF operations began evolving
in January 2025. As of July 2025, USADF was undergoing significant
changes and potential closure or transfer of its functions to another
agency.
5GAO-15-593SP. OMB’s Circular A-123 on Enterprise Risk Management advises
agencies to implement the leading practices found in this framework.
6The fourth component of the fraud risk framework is to evaluate outcomes of the
implementation of fraud risk management steps outlined in the first three components and
adapt activities to improve fraud risk management. However, based on our findings from
the first three components of the fraud risk framework, it would not have been possible for
USADF to monitor, evaluate, and adapt fraud risk management activities that they had not
developed or implemented. As a result, we did not evaluate this fourth component.
Page 3 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 9

We conducted this performance audit from May 2024 to September 2025
in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our
findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe that
the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our findings and
conclusions based on our audit objectives.
Background
USADF Mission USADF, established in 1980 as a nonprofit government corporation,
supported African-led development that grows community enterprises by
providing financial and technical support to African-owned and African-led
enterprises that have faced barriers to resources.7 USADF supported
broad U.S. foreign assistance priorities in hard-to-reach communities
across Africa. USADF used an African-led and -managed development
model that directs development resources to the vulnerable areas with
greatest need and potential for impact, according to USADF documents.
USADF investments, which aim to help local communities and enterprises
become self-sufficient and better integrated into local economies, focused
on three programmatic areas.
• Agriculture and food security. USADF aimed to assist agricultural
cooperatives to develop better enterprise management skills, improve
production and distribution capabilities, access larger markets,
improve marketing capabilities, and increase revenues and incomes
for small farmers. For an example of an Agriculture and Food Security
project funded by these grants in Zambia that we observed, see figure
1.
• Off-grid energy access. USADF supported off-grid energy access by
promoting market-based solutions that connect people and
businesses to electricity and are particularly impactful for marginalized
communities.
• Women and youth-led entrepreneurship and employment.
USADF aimed to provide youth and women entrepreneurs with the
tools needed to invest in their own communities, employ marginalized
people, train others, and create or expand markets.
7USADF’s statutory provisions can be found at 22 U.S.C. §§ 290h–290h-8.
Page 4 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 10

Figure 1: U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) Agriculture Grant in
Zambia
USADF provided grant funding to an agricultural company in Zambia to increase its
capacity to produce livestock feed, expand its business operations, and improve business
management practices.
Page 5 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 11

USADF Act The USADF Act states that USADF should conduct its work in
cooperation with, and in response to, organizations indigenous to Africa
that are representative of the needs and aspirations of the poor in Africa.8
The African Development Foundation Act
(USADF Act) states the purposes of USADF USADF is also required, to the extent possible, to coordinate its activities
shall be to (1) strengthen the bonds of with the activities of the U.S. Government and private, regional, and
friendship and understanding between the
international organizations.
people of Africa and the U.S., (2) support self-
help activities at the local level designed to
enlarge opportunities for community
USADF is authorized to make grants and loans to African organizations
development, (3) stimulate and assist
effective and expanding participation of fostering local development institutions and those working towards the
Africans in their development process, and (4) transfer of development resources, expertise, and knowledge within
encourage the establishment and growth of
Africa, among other things. Each grant or loan must not exceed $250,000
development institutions which are indigenous
to particular countries in Africa and which can and must be directed to African entities that are representative and
respond to the requirements of the poor in
knowledgeable of, and sensitive to, the needs and aspirations of the poor.
those countries.
These entities further disburse the funds to other African entities to carry
Source: Pub. L. No. 96–533, title V, § 504, 94 Stat. 3131,
3152 (Dec. 16, 1980), codified at 22 U.S.C. § 290h-2. | out the purposes of USADF. See figure 2 for an example of a USADF
GAO-25-107574
grant awarded to a small business in Zambia that we observed.
8The African Development Foundation Act, Pub. L. No. 96–533, title V, 94 Stat. 3151-
3155 (Dec. 16, 1980), codified as amended at 22 U.S.C. §§ 290h–290h-8 (USADF Act).
Page 6 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


### Tables

#### Table 1

|  |  |  |
|  | The African Development Foundation Act |  |
|  | (USADF Act) states the purposes of USADF |  |
|  | shall be to (1) strengthen the bonds of |  |
|  | friendship and understanding between the |  |
|  | people of Africa and the U.S., (2) support self- |  |
|  | help activities at the local level designed to |  |
|  | enlarge opportunities for community |  |
|  | development, (3) stimulate and assist |  |
|  | effective and expanding participation of |  |
|  | Africans in their development process, and (4) |  |
|  | encourage the establishment and growth of |  |
|  | development institutions which are indigenous |  |
|  | to particular countries in Africa and which can |  |
|  | respond to the requirements of the poor in |  |
|  | those countries. |  |
|  | Source: Pub. L. No. 96–533, title V, § 504, 94 Stat. 3131, |  |
|  | 3152 (Dec. 16, 1980), codified at 22 U.S.C. § 290h-2. | |  |
|  | GAO-25-107574 |  |
|  |  |  |

## Page 12

Figure 2: U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) Grant for Women’s
Cooking Oil Business in Zambia
With USADF grant funding, women farmers in southern Zambia transitioned to growing
and processing sunflower, which is more sustainable than other crops and has several
uses, most notably: cooking oil.
USADF Roles and According to the USADF Act, the foundation is to be led by a Board of
Responsibilities Directors, and as of January 2025 USADF’s leadership was composed of
the President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer
(CFO), and Chief Program Officer (CPO), according to USADF officials
(see fig. 3). If all planned positions were filled, USADF would have 56
staff. USADF is authorized to employ up to 75 people to carry out its
work, according to the USADF Act.9
922 U.S.C. § 290h–4(a)(7).
Page 7 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 13

Figure 3: U.S. African Development Foundation High-level Organizational Chart, as
of January 2025
Board of Directors. USADF’s Board of Directors is required to be
composed of seven people who are appointed by the United States
President and confirmed by the Senate. Five of the seven members are
to be from the private sector; the other two are to be representing the
public sector from federal agencies concerned with African affairs.10 As of
January 2025, the public sector dedicated seats had been vacant since
2016, according to USADF Board members and officials. The United
States President must designate one of the seven members of the Board
to serve as Chairperson of the Board, and another to serve as Vice
Chairperson. The Board met at least four times a year, covering topics
1022 U.S.C. § 290h–5. According to the USADF Act, members of the Board shall be
appointed so that no more than four members of the Board are members of any one
political party.
Page 8 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 14

such as agency finances and audit findings. The USADF Act also
requires the Board to establish an advisory council and consult the
council concerning USADF objectives and activities at least annually.
USADF leadership. The Board delegated management of USADF to the
USADF President and CEO, who was appointed by and reports to the
Board. Based on this delegation, the President and CEO had overall
responsibility and authority for the conduct of the business and affairs of
USADF, subject to the authority and oversight of the Board. USADF also
had a CFO and CPO, who together with the President and CEO
comprised agency leadership, according to USADF officials.
USADF Washington, D.C., headquarters. As of January 2025, USADF
had 43 employees composed of 31 full-time equivalent employees,
including the three agency leadership positions, plus 12 contracted
employees in its headquarters office in Washington, D.C. Staff at
headquarters conducted overall and financial management of the agency,
established policies and procedures, and provided oversight of its country
teams and grant programs in Africa. The Program Division was divided
into three regions, each run by a Regional Portfolio Manager who
managed program staff and a portfolio of country programs. The Program
Division also included staff that worked across countries in all regions.
For example, an energy advisor at USADF headquarters oversaw and
facilitated the energy program grants.
USADF country teams. USADF employed African staff and local
technical partners on the ground across Africa, according to officials.
According to USADF documents, this model made USADF a foreign
assistance provider that can operate in areas that are often too remote to
be reached by other U.S. government development agencies. As of
January 2025, USADF had programs in 23 countries and a staff presence
in 19 of these countries, as shown in figure 4.
Page 9 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 15

Figure 4: U.S. African Development Foundation Had Grant Programs in 23
Countries and a Presence in 19 Countries in Africa, as of January 2025
Notes: “Active grants” countries had funding obligations for new grants in fiscal year 2024, but
USADF did not have a Country Program Coordinator and implementing partner present in-country.
USADF typically relies on local embassy staff and nearby country teams to provide oversight and
support for grants in countries with non-program presence, according to a USADF official. “Country
Program Coordinator and/or implementing partner presence” countries also had funding obligations
for new grants in fiscal year 2024, except for Namibia and Zimbabwe. USADF also had an active
Country Program Coordinator in Mali, as of January 2025, to conduct grant close-out activities and
other activities, following the April 2024 closure of USADF programs in Mali, according to a USADF
official.
Page 10 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 16

USADF country teams were composed of two components:
• Country Program Coordinator (CPC). USADF had a CPC in 15
countries to issue the annual call for applications, screen grant
applications, conduct initial site visits, and support the implementing
partner with grant oversight.
• Implementing partners. USADF used local organizations to assist
with project development and implementation, provide technical
assistance to grantees, ensure compliance, and monitor project
implementation and performance.
In each country where program operations were launched, USADF policy
stated that USADF would negotiate a country accord with the host
government. USADF policy also stated that the country program must
conform to all host country laws and regulations and ensure full
accountability and compliance with all USADF policies and requirements.
USADF Funding and USADF’s annual operating budget in Fiscal Year (FY) 2024 was
Awards approximately $57 million. USADF received most of its funding from
appropriations, which were $45 million in fiscal year 2024.11 USADF’s
funding model supplemented its appropriations with funding from host
African national and subnational governments that invest their own funds
directly into USADF programs (see figure 5).
11USADF’s appropriation has had a two-year period of availability since at least FY20. For
example, USADF’s FY24 appropriation of $45 million is available through the end of FY25.
Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2024, Pub. L. No. 118-47, 138 Stat. 460, 746
(Mar. 23, 2024).
Page 11 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 17

Figure 5: U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) Annual Budget by Funding
Source, Fiscal Years 2020–2024
Note: Recoveries and carry forward are funds resulting from de-obligations or recovered grant
funding from a previous fiscal year that are available for use in the current fiscal year, according to
USADF officials.
USADF extended the reach of its appropriated funds through co-funding
partnership agreements with private sector corporate and foundation
partners, according to USADF documents. USADF also coordinated
some of its programs with other U.S. government agencies and had
interagency partnership funding agreements. For example, USADF
partnered with the U.S. Department of State in funding grants to African
women entrepreneurs under the Academy for Women Entrepreneurs
program, according to USADF documents.
USADF grant funding went to 36 different countries across Africa, with the
top ten funded countries receiving 70 percent of all USADF grant funding
from fiscal years 2020 through 2024, see table 1.
Page 12 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 18

Table 1: U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) Top Funded Countries,
Fiscal Years 2020–2024
Total USADF Grant Percent of Total
Funding Obligations USADF Grant Funding
Country (in thousands) Obligations
Nigeria $16,969 12%
Uganda $12,409 9%
Niger $11,099 8%
Kenya $10,903 8%
Cote D’Ivoire $10,377 8%
Benin $9,177 7%
Malawi $7,340 5%
Burkina Faso $6,155 4%
Zambia $6,080 4%
Liberia $5,847 4%
All other countries $41,124 30%
Total $137,481 100%
Source: GAO Analysis of USADF data; G7 Stock, VectorShop, Maya Palmer, Djerdj/stock.adobe.com (icons). | GAO-25-107574
Note: Percentages may not sum to 100 percent due to rounding.
USADF used several award types, such as contracts, grants, and
cooperative agreements to conduct its work and implement programs.
Page 13 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 19

Federal law requires that each award type be used for different principal
purposes.12 USADF used contracts to hire personnel and procure goods
and services. USADF hired both Institutional Support Contractors and
Personal Services Contracts (PSCs).13 The CPCs in-country were hired
through contracts. Treasury’s ARC provided contracting services to
USADF to support its contracts.
USADF provided both project grants and cooperative agreements to
African-owned entities in Africa. For example, USADF provided
cooperative agreements to its African-owned implementing partner
organizations, according to USADF officials. USADF provided grants to
African-owned entities in Africa to build management capacity and
encourage economic development, including agricultural cooperatives
and producer groups, community-based organizations, and small and
medium-sized enterprises, according to USADF documents.
USADF used various types of grants to fund projects in Africa. The two
most common grants used were Capacity Building Grants and Enterprise
Expansion Grants, according to USADF officials.
• Capacity Building Grants. Many enterprises require initial capacity
building prior to pursuing expansion, and these grants were awarded
to groups that had a potential for longer term growth and business
success. However, these grantees needed business planning,
management and financial systems development, training, and
technical assistance to position themselves for follow-on investment.
These grants were one to two years in length and ranged from
$50,000 to $100,000, according to USADF documents.
• Enterprise Expansion Grants. These grants were the principal
financing mechanism USADF used to assist grantees in generating
increased revenues, increased incomes, improved profitability,
creating jobs, and positioning themselves for future investments.
These businesses must have a track record that reflects a strong
production capacity, market knowledge, quality products, and well-
developed financial systems that will enable them to obtain a USADF
financial certification, according to USADF documents. These grants
were typically three to four years in length and ranged from $100,000
to $250,000, according to USADF documents.
1231 U.S.C. §§ 6303-6305.
13Institutional support contractors are employed by a separate corporate entity but perform
work for the government.
Page 14 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 20

Federal Fraud, Waste, and Fraud, waste, and abuse of federal funds can cost millions of dollars (see
Abuse Risk Management fig. 6). Fraud can come from within or from outside an organization. For
example, an employee, manager or executive within an organization may
commit fraud by deceiving their own organization through embezzling
funds or accepting bribes. Outside entities may also commit fraud against
an organization. For example, vendors may lie about the work they did, or
grantees may claim reimbursement for activities they did not perform.14
Figure 6: Fraud, Waste, and Abuse Definitions and Examples
Several leading practices for managing fraud, waste, and abuse risks
exist to guide federal agencies in developing policies and internal
controls. GAO’s Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government
calls for agency management to identify, analyze, and respond to risks
related to achieving their objectives, including fraud risks.15 The internal
control standards state that as part of this overall assessment,
14Fraud involves obtaining a thing of value through willful misrepresentation. Whether a
particular act constitutes fraud is a determination to be made by a court of law.
15GAO, Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government, GAO-14-704G
(Washington, D.C.: Sept. 10, 2014).
Page 15 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 21

management should consider the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing, and responding to risks in their programs.
To help managers combat fraud and preserve integrity in government
agencies and programs, GAO identified leading practices for managing
fraud risks and organized them into a Fraud Risk Framework.16 The fraud
risk framework encompasses activities to prevent, detect, and respond to
fraud as well as structures and environmental factors that influence or
help managers to mitigate fraud risks, see figure 7.17 The fraud risk
framework is aligned with Principle 8 (“Assess Fraud Risk”) of the
Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government. One of the
leading practices identified in the fraud risk framework is to conduct a
fraud risk assessment that is tailored to risks at the program level.
16The full benefits of fraud risk management activities can be difficult to measure because
of challenges in distinguishing potential fraud from legitimate activity or other forms of
improper payments, such as waste and abuse. GAO-15-593SP.
17OMB Circular A-123, directs agencies to follow the leading practices identified in the
Fraud Risk Framework as part of their efforts to effectively design, implement, and operate
an internal control system that addresses fraud risks. The Payment Integrity Information
Act of 2019 requires OMB to maintain guidelines for agencies to establish financial and
administrative controls to identify and assess fraud risks and that incorporate leading
practices detailed in our Fraud Risk Framework. Pub. L. No. 116-117, 134 Stat. 113 (Mar.
2, 2020), codified at 31 U.S.C. §§ 3351-58.
Page 16 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 22

Figure 7: The Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) Framework for Managing Fraud Risks in Federal Programs
USADF 2025 Beginning in January 2025, significant changes have occurred in the
Developments USADF workforce and programs, including the possibility of closure and
the transfer of its functions to another agency, see fig. 8.
Page 17 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 23

Figure 8: Timeline of Developments at U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) in 2025
aExec. Order No. 14169, Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid, 90 Fed. Reg. 8619
(Jan. 20, 2025). The order called for a review of all U.S. foreign development assistance alongside a
90-day pause in new obligations and disbursements.
bExec. Order No. 14217, Commencing the Reduction of the Federal Bureaucracy, 90 Fed. Reg.
10577 (Feb. 19, 2025). Under the order, USADF was directed to reduce the performance of its
statutory functions and associated personnel to the minimum presence and function required by law,
among other things.
cOrder, Rural Dev. Innovations Ltd., et al. v. Pete Marocco, et al., No. 25-cv-1631, dkt. 27 (D.D.C.,
Jul. 1, 2025).
The U.S. President’s fiscal year 2026 budget request provides for the
elimination of, or the elimination of federal funding for USADF. Congress,
Page 18 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 24

in July 2025, approved a $22 million recission of USADF’s fiscal year
2025 funding.18 Also, a bill has been introduced in Congress to repeal the
USADF Act, which established the entity, and to transfer all of its
functions to the Secretary of State, among other things.19
USADF had some policies and procedures to manage fraud, waste, and
USADF Had
abuse, as of fiscal year 2024, but many polices were outdated and had
Outdated Policies and
neither a systematic nor a strategic approach to implement them. This is
because the agency did not prioritize obtaining or dedicating the
Procedures to
personnel to maintain policies and implement fraud risk management
Mitigate Fraud,
tasks. Without workforce planning to support a systematic approach to
update policies and procedures, or a strategic approach to implement
Waste, and Abuse
them, USADF may be less able to detect and mitigate fraud, waste, and
and No Strategic
abuse risks.
Approach
USADF Had Some Our review of policies and procedures in place from fiscal years 2020
Policies and Procedures to through 2024 found that USADF had some policies that were intended to
mitigate fraud, waste, and abuse, but many of these policies were
Mitigate Fraud, Waste,
outdated. Specifically, USADF had employment and financial
and Abuse Risks, but
management policies and procedures to mitigate internal fraud, waste,
Many Were Outdated
and abuse.
USADF Policies and Conflict of interest. USADF had some policies in place to address
Procedures potential conflict-of-interest among staff that could mitigate fraud and
abuse risks. The Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as amended,
requires certain employees in Federal agencies to file financial disclosure
reports. Agencies use the financial disclosure reports to determine
whether employees covered by the Act have a conflict of interest in
conducting their work. USADF policy documents established procedures
for filing financial disclosure reports for those employees required to file
them.
USADF policy on project development also contained a conflict-of-interest
policy to help ensure that all participants in the grant selection and
development processes had no conflict of interest. The policy outlined
18Recissions Act of 2025, Pub. L. No. 119-28, § 2(b)(18) (Jul. 24, 2025).
19S. 1054, 119th Congress (2025).
Page 19 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 25

situations that would present a potential conflict-of-interest and provided
instruction to relevant staff about who to notify in those potential
situations. Agency training materials also stated that “employees shall not
hold financial interests that conflict with the conscientious performance of
duty.”
Employee policies. USADF policy documents on reporting allegations of
criminal offenses, misuse of grant and contract funds, or improper
conduct by employees outlined the responsibilities of all USADF
employees in combatting and reporting fraud, waste, and abuse. USADF
documents described the procedures for reporting allegations of improper
conduct by employees, grantees, contractors, and others doing business
with USADF.
The documents also notified employees about their rights and protections
under various discrimination and whistleblower laws that could mitigate
fraud, waste, and abuse risks. For example, USADF policy on reporting
allegations stated that “management and supervisory personnel are
responsible for fostering an organizational culture of integrity that
provides a foundation for ensuring that fraud detection and prevention are
active elements of a system of internal control to prevent, deter, and
detect fraud.”
Travel policies. USADF also had policies and procedures to govern
employee official travel to mitigate fraud, waste, and abuse risks. For
example, the USADF travel policy required employees to use a
government credit card for all official travel, in line with federal travel
regulations, to mitigate fraud, waste, and abuse risk.20 The travel charge
card policy laid out an employee’s responsibilities for proper and improper
use of the card and required that employees review a training document
and sign a statement of responsibility prior to obtaining such a card.
A 2024 USAID OIG report to assess the risks of illegal, improper, or
erroneous purchases and payments in USADF’s charge card program
found that the charge card program posed a low risk to USADF. The OIG
also found that the agency had adequate monitoring and reconciliation
procedures to reduce the risk in the charge card programs, and policies
2041 C.F.R. § 301-51.1.
Page 20 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 26

and procedures that addressed the applicable charge card internal control
requirements.21
Ethics training: The USADF General Counsel periodically conducted
ethics training for headquarters employees, according to USADF officials.
USADF training materials noted that ethics rules were to ensure that staff
performed the agency’s mission with the public’s interest in mind to
uphold the public’s confidence in the integrity of the government. This
ethics training covered a range of ethical issues and standards related to
mitigating fraud, waste, and abuse risks, such as:
• not holding financial interests that conflict with the performance of
duty,
• not using public office for private gain,
• not giving preferential treatment to any private organization or
individual, and
• not using federal property other than for authorized activities.
The ethics training also outlined staff responsibilities regarding federal gift
policies—gifts must be $20 or less per occasion per source and no more
in aggregate than $50 per source in a calendar year.22 USADF’s ethics
training also outlined the staff’s responsibility to report waste, fraud,
abuse, corruption, and conflicts of interest to appropriate authorities.
USADF in-country staff and implementing partners we spoke with in
Zambia and Nigeria also told us that when USADF staff visited from
headquarters, they used the opportunity to review the ethics training
materials and retrain in-country staff.
However, in a 2024 management advisory, the OIG reported that USADF
ethics training did not clearly specify that allegations of fraud should be
reported to the OIG.23 According to the OIG, USADF officials knew of
21This OIG report assessed the risks of illegal, improper, or erroneous purchases and
payments in USADF’s fiscal year 2023 charge card programs. The OIG determined that
the charge card programs posed a low risk to USADF, and an audit or review of the
program was not necessary since USADF’s charge card spending did not exceed $10
million. USAID OIG, Charge Card Risk Assessment: USADF’s Programs Showed Low
Risk of Improper Purchases and Payments in Fiscal Year 2023 (0-ADF-24-002-S), July
11, 2024.
225 C.F.R. § 2635.204.
23USAID OIG, Nonreporting of Suspected Misuse of USADF Grant Funds and Equipment
(E- ADF-24-001-A), August 29, 2024.
Page 21 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 27

suspected misuse of foundation funds and equipment purchased through
foundation grants but failed to report this information to the OIG as
required. The OIG also reported that USADF staff responsible for grant
oversight were unaware of the OIG’s role in preventing and detecting
fraud, waste, and abuse, and ethics training materials did not clearly
specify that such allegations of fraud should be reported to the OIG.
The OIG made a recommendation for USADF to update its training to
incorporate information on USAID OIG oversight authorities and
procedures for disclosing allegations of fraud, waste, and abuse. In its
response, USADF concurred with the recommendation noting its full
commitment to ensuring that staff are well-informed about OIG oversight
authorities and procedures for disclosing fraud, waste, and abuse
allegations—a vital part of their compliance strategy. USADF updated its
ethics training material and provided the updated training to its staff.
Financial controls. USADF had some internal policies and procedures
directed toward financial management. USADF utilized independent
audits as a key element of its internal controls, according to USADF
officials and documents. USADF’s policy on audits established standards
and frequency for audits of grants, implementing partners, and Country
Program Coordinators, which were conducted by independent audit firms
in the host countries.
USADF also had some financial controls related to the management of
partner funds that were held in local bank accounts in host countries.24
However, the 2024 OIG financial audit reported significant deficiencies in
the internal controls over this process and made six recommendations for
improvement. USADF concurred with the recommendations. The USADF
President was required by USADF policy to submit annual assurance
statements regarding USADF’s effectiveness of internal controls over
operations, and whether financial management systems conform to
government wide requirements.
USADF also‐ relied on external oversight for some of its financial control
policies and procedures. For example, Treasury’s ARC provided various
services for USADF financial transactions, including procurement, grant
24According to USADF documents and officials, these partner funds are donations made
by African governments and certain private sector entities for program purposes in about
10 countries which are maintained in commercial accounts in local currencies. USADF
controls disbursements from these accounts. As of September 30, 2024, the amount of
these funds was approximately $9.3 million.
Page 22 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 28

disbursements, and payroll operations. According to USADF documents,
USADF relied on those entities’ systems of internal control to a great
extent. However, as we discuss later, gaps in financial controls existed
and ARC raised concerns about USADF’s contracting practices. Financial
statement audits of USADF were carried out by the OIG on an annual
basis, which was another element of its financial controls.
Outdated Policies and Although USADF had some policies in place to mitigate the risk of fraud,
Procedures waste, and abuse, many of the related policy manuals were outdated, not
centrally located, and did not reflect current practices, according to
USADF officials and our review of relevant documents. Most USADF
policy documents were over 10 years old, and some were over 20 years
old. USADF staff we spoke to reported that while the agency had several
policies, existing guidance for conducting oversight and their work in
general was insufficient and policies were often outdated.
As a result, some of the policy documents did not represent current
practices. For example, while the policy manual had a section detailing
the processes and purpose of its grants management database, the
actual grants management database in use by program staff was different
than the one referred to in the policy manual. USADF in-country staff and
implementing partners in Zambia and Nigeria also told us that the
guidance and policy documents provided by USADF headquarters were
not sufficient. Instead, they developed additional policies and procedures
to guide their oversight of grantees.
In addition, we found that policies were difficult to locate. The USADF
policy manual covered a range of topics including internal controls,
employment rules, and grant management. However, the manual was
composed of approximately 70 separate documents that were not all
stored in a single location, and USADF did not have a central list of its
entire contents, according to USADF officials. As a result, some policies
were difficult to locate, according to USADF officials. USADF staff told us
that USADF did not have a process in place to ensure that current
policies were documented, maintained in a centralized location, or
updated on a regular basis.
According to USADF officials, the policy manual sections which guided
agency internal control policies and fraud, waste, and abuse risk
management activities had not been updated because USADF had
neither sufficient staff nor resources to do so. Certain key positions did
not exist, were vacant, or not sufficiently staffed. For example, USADF
had one staff member in charge of audits, which is a key function for
Page 23 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 29

mitigating fraud, waste, and abuse. That position became vacant in late
2024 with no plan in place to ensure this key role was filled.25 Other key
positions, such as the monitoring and evaluation specialist, the training
officer, and a supervisory financial analyst, had been vacant for several
months or years as of late 2024. USADF in-country staff and
implementing partners in Zambia and Nigeria told us that their main point
of contact at USADF headquarters, who was responsible for overseeing
their work, turned over every year or two during their tenure.
Some USADF officials we interviewed acknowledged that this lack of
sufficient staff or resources was because USADF leadership had not
prioritized workforce planning. Leading practices in human capital
management state that agencies should determine the critical skills and
competencies that their personnel need to achieve programmatic results.
Without workforce planning to determine the number and skills of staff
needed to perform its various functions or the development of certain
management processes, USADF was not best positioned to detect and
mitigate fraud, waste, and abuse risks.
Agency decisions about which positions were needed and how quickly to
fill vacancies were led by the USADF President, according to USADF
officials. The USADF President reorganized the program division in 2023
to streamline program implementation and oversight, according to
USADF staff and documents. The USADF President also made changes
in the composition of agency leadership positions, such that agency
leadership between 2020 and 2024 periodically included a Chief
Operating Officer and Chief Strategy Officer. However, neither position
existed in the organization at the time of our review.
Without these positions, including a leader to guide key internal control
and fraud risk management activities, USADF was at a greater risk of
being unable to mitigate fraud risks. According to USADF officials, the
USADF President led an overhaul of most policy manual documents
around 2012. Since that time, they had not prioritized dedicating the
human resources needed to keep those policy manual sections updated.
The USADF Board of Directors—which is responsible for the overall
management of USADF—had also affected USADF leadership decisions
to minimize staffing levels at the agency, according to USADF officials
and Board members. USADF Board members told us that they worked
25This position became vacant as a result of a planned retirement.
Page 24 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 30

with the USADF President to minimize the ratio of administrative costs to
program costs. USADF leadership staff told us that they kept
administrative costs down by maintaining lower staff numbers, rather than
add positions that might enable additional resources to be dedicated to
updating policies and managing fraud risk tasks.
According to Federal Internal Control standards, management should
document responsibilities and procedures and use quality information to
achieve the entity’s objectives.26 Without updated policies, staff do not
have sufficient or accurate guidance to implement agency policies,
conduct their work, and mitigate potential risks.
USADF Had Yet to We found that USADF had developed some plans to implement policies
Implement to reduce fraud, waste, and abuse risks, but such plans had not been
executed. USADF had a policy manual section that outlined management
Comprehensive Internal
responsibility for internal control, last updated in 2015. Establishing
Risk Mitigation Policies
comprehensive, agency-wide internal controls through policies and
and Procedures Agency- procedures enables an agency to strategically reduce risks that can
wide hinder it from achieving its mission, including the risk of fraud, waste, and
abuse. USADF’s policy stated that the agency’s internal controls must
follow GAO’s Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government.
USADF’s policy specified that internal control activities were to be led by
the USADF President and an Internal Control Assessment Committee
responsible for all matters relating to internal control at USADF, including
the establishment, assessment, correction, and reporting on internal
control. USADF policy also outlined the specific positions and divisions
which should comprise the Committee. For example, the Committee was
to be led by the head of Finance and Administration, with representation
from other key offices such as the Office of General Counsel, Programs,
and Audit.
The purpose of the Committee was to provide oversight of the
assessment of internal controls over financial reporting and adherence to
requirements. For example, the Committee would have been responsible
for assisting management in implementing an internal control framework,
fostering an organizational environment that supports continuous
awareness of internal controls, developing a comprehensive internal
control assessment program, and overseeing the conduct of periodic risk
assessments. However, according to USADF officials, the Committee
26GAO-14-704G
Page 25 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 31

was never formed because USADF lacked personnel who could be
devoted to developing and implementing these policies. And, as
previously noted, USADF officials told us that agency leadership had not
prioritized obtaining the human resources needed to implement these
policies.
USADF also developed an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) plan, but
six years after its development had yet to implement it. The ERM plan,
finalized in January 2019, was policy USADF wrote to comply with the
Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A 123 and GAO’s
Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government, according to
USADF officials.27 According to the ERM plan, it was‐ meant to improve
mission delivery by integrating risk management and agency internal
control systems in an agency-wide enterprise risk management
framework. The plan was focused on the establishment of a risk
management committee consisting of key members of agency leadership
and chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. The committee was
responsible for (1) creating a risk appetite statement, (2) creating the
foundation’s risk profile, (3) facilitating an ERM culture conversation
throughout the agency, and (4) implementing the plan. According to the
most recent ERM plan, USADF formed the ERM committee in 2018.
However, according to USADF officials, the committee only met once,
and the ERM plan had not yet been implemented. The ERM was never
implemented because USADF leadership did not prioritize the human
resources needed to further develop and implement the plan, according
to USADF officials.
As of January 2025, USADF officials reported that they were in the
process of hiring a consultant to assist in further development and
implementation of the plan. However, at the time of our review, USADF
leadership had paused these efforts to respond to the planned changes to
foreign assistance and USADF operations.
Establishing adequate internal controls, specifically employing a strategic
approach to managing fraud risks, enables an agency to better mitigate
fraud, waste, and abuse risks. By not dedicating enough human
27OMB Circular No. A-123 emphasizes the importance of having appropriate risk
management processes and systems to identify challenges early, to bring them to the
attention of Agency leadership, and to develop solutions. The Circular is meant to ensure
Federal managers are effectively managing risks an Agency faces toward achieving its
strategic objectives and arising from its activities and operations.
Page 26 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 32

resources to follow and update its policies and plans related to internal
control, USADF has not fully established key policies and procedures to
create an effective internal control environment. A key factor for improving
accountability in achieving an entity’s mission is to implement an effective
internal control system. Without a comprehensive and agency-wide
approach to internal controls, USADF faces an increased risk of fraud,
waste, and abuse in its programs.
The USADF Board, which is responsible for management of USADF, did
not establish and consult with an advisory council, as required by law.
The USADF Act requires the Board to establish an advisory council
composed of individuals knowledgeable about development activities in
Africa and to consult the council at least annually concerning the
objectives and activities of the Foundation.28 However, according to the
USADF Board members we spoke with, such an advisory council was
never created. Therefore, the USADF Board did not fully meet its
obligations in accordance with the law and did not benefit from potential
input from the advisory council on risk mitigation.
We found that USADF had taken some steps but had not implemented
USADF Had Not
many of the leading practices for managing fraud risks, including
Implemented Many of
establishing key policies, procedures, or personnel to specifically assess
and mitigate fraud risks. Components for managing fraud risks listed in
the Leading Practices
GAO’s Fraud Risk Framework include some of the following:
for Managing Fraud
1. committing to combating fraud by creating an organizational culture
Risks
and structure conducive to fraud risk management,
2. assessing risks by conducting regular fraud risk assessments and
developing a fraud risk profile, and
3. designing and implementing a strategy with specific control activities
to mitigate assessed fraud risks and collaborating with stakeholders to
help ensure effective implementation.
USADF Took Limited USADF had some policies aimed at creating an organization-wide culture
Steps to Create an for combating fraud, but its management had not implemented leading
practices (see table 2). USADF’s policy on the misuse of grant funds
Antifraud Culture and
stated that management is responsible for fostering an organizational
Structure
culture of integrity that provides a foundation for ensuring that fraud
detection and prevention are active elements of a system of internal
control to prevent, deter, and detect fraud. USADF staff, contractors, and
2822 U.S.C. § 290h–5(e)(1)-(2).
Page 27 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 33

grantee organizations were also responsible for assisting in efforts to
combat fraud, waste, and abuse in all USADF programs, including
questioning and identifying suspicious activities and reporting such
activities. USADF policy also protected employees against retaliation or
harassment for reporting real or apparent fraud, waste, or abuse. Persons
reporting real or apparent fraud, waste or abuse may also remain
anonymous if they choose. However, USADF’s implementation of its
policies had shortcomings.
Table 2: U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) Had Not Fully Followed Leading Practices in Its Efforts to Create an
Antifraud Culture and an Antifraud Entity, Fiscal Years 2020–2024
Leading Practices
(Commit to Combating Fraud) USADF Antifraud Policies Status
Create an organizational culture to combat fraud at USADF had a policy outlining how to handle allegations of Partially met
all levels of the agency fraud, but did not have an antifraud strategy or code of
conduct to set expectations
Designate an antifraud entity—either an individual or No dedicated antifraud entity—either an individual or team Not met
team to lead fraud risk management activities to lead fraud risk management activities
Source: GAO analysis of USADF documents. | GAO-25-107574
Create an organizational culture to combat fraud at all levels of the
agency. While USADF policy addressed certain aspects of fostering an
organizational culture of integrity, we found weaknesses in the USADF’s
implementation. For example, a senior official who oversaw ethics issues
at USADF told us that they were unsure if USADF had a code of conduct
for employees despite having a policy that references the Standards of
Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch.29
Further, USADF officials told us that some staff were uncomfortable
reporting instances of fraud, waste, or abuse if they did not have a good
relationship with their supervisor. Some in-country staff we spoke with
were unaware of an anonymous way to report fraud, waste, and abuse,
while others knew of a confidential USADF email account where in-
country staff could send reports. This inconsistency in awareness
occurred because USADF leadership had not prioritized dedicating the
staff or resources needed for updating, implementing, and communicating
agency policies, related to fraud, waste, and abuse, according to USADF
officials.
29This rule outlines standards of ethical conduct that apply to federal employees. 5 C.F.R.
Part 2635 (2024).
Page 28 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 34

According to the fraud risk framework, managers who effectively manage
fraud risks demonstrate a senior-level commitment to integrity and
combating fraud. Without mechanisms in place such as a code of
conduct, an attitude statement towards fraud, or clear reporting policies,
employees may not have clear expectations or knowledge about a safe
means to report fraud, waste, or abuse. Because USADF did not fully
create an organizational culture to combat fraud, it was not positioned to
most effectively assess and mitigate internal and external fraud risks.
Designate an individual or team to lead fraud risk management
activities. We also found that USADF had not dedicated an individual or
team to lead its fraud risk management activities. A leading practice for
managing fraud risks is to designate an antifraud entity—either an
individual or team—with the responsibility to design and oversee fraud
risk management activities. The antifraud individual or team should:
1. understand the fraud risks and controls throughout the program,
2. have defined responsibilities, and
3. have a direct reporting line to senior-level managers.
The ERM plan also directed USADF to delegate certain tasks to various
staff within headquarters to address identified risks. However, according
to USADF officials, no single antifraud entity existed to respond to fraud
risks. According to the fraud risk framework, dedicated antifraud entities
or individuals are responsible for facilitating communication with
management and stakeholders on fraud-related issues.
USADF officials told us that various staff across the agency carried out
fraud risk management activities. For example, the General Counsel was
responsible for reviewing financial disclosures and conducting ethics
training for staff; the internal auditor led financial audits of in-country staff
and grantees; and in-country staff were responsible for overseeing fraud
risk management activities such as grant monitoring. USADF officials told
us that the internal auditor position specifically oversaw the selection of
local audit firms to conduct approximately 30 to 40 CPC and project grant
audits each fiscal year.30 Nevertheless, USADF could not provide
30As of December 2024, the internal auditor position was vacant, according to USADF
officials. Some USADF officials expressed interest in expanding responsibilities for the
internal auditor position to include internal audits at the headquarters level.
Page 29 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 35

documentation demonstrating that any person or office had been
designated to lead fraud risk management activities.
While entities across the agency should be involved in fraud risk
management activities, having a dedicated person or team to coordinate
antifraud initiatives across the agency, including facilitating
communication with management and among stakeholders on fraud-
related issues, enables an agency to more effectively assess and mitigate
internal and external fraud risks agency-wide.
USADF Had Not We found that USADF had not conducted fraud risk assessments or
Conducted Fraud Risk developed a fraud risk profile to assess risks, see table 3. The fraud risk
profile is an essential piece of an overall antifraud strategy and can inform
Assessments or
the specific control activities that managers design and implement. The
Developed a Fraud Risk
fraud risk framework identifies conducting regular fraud risk assessments
Profile and developing a fraud risk profile as a leading practice for fraud risk
management. Further, Federal Internal Control Standards state that
agency managers should consider potential fraud when identifying,
analyzing, and responding to risks in their programs. Programs must
conduct a risk assessment in order to create a fraud risk profile.
Effectively assessing fraud risks involves documenting the key findings
and conclusions from the risk assessment. The summation of these
findings is the fraud risk profile.
Table 3: U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) Had Not Followed Leading Practices in Its Efforts to Implement a
Strategy to Assess Fraud Risks, Fiscal Years 2020–2024
Leading Practices (Assess Fraud Risks) USADF Antifraud Policies Status
Plan regular fraud risk assessments that are tailored to the No policies or procedures for assessing fraud risk Not met
program
Identify and assess risks to determine the program’s fraud No fraud risk profile or policy in place to establish one Not met
risk profile
Source: GAO analysis of USADF documents. | GAO-25-107574
Plan regular fraud risk assessments that are tailored to the program.
An effective program-specific risk assessment process involves:
• determining the types of fraud risks,
• their perceived likelihood and impact,
• managers’ risk tolerance, and
Page 30 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 36

• the prioritization of risks.31
While the timing can vary, it is a leading practice for agencies to conduct
effective fraud risk assessments at regular intervals and in response to
changes to the program or operating environment. Fraud risk
assessments are iterative and not meant to be onetime exercises,
according to the fraud risk framework. Factors such as size, resources,
maturity of the agency or program, and experience in managing risks can
influence how the entity conducts the fraud risk assessment.
Identify and assess risks to determine the program’s fraud risk
profile. An agency’s risk assessment process should result in the
development of a fraud risk profile that, among other things, describes the
suitability of existing fraud controls and prioritizes residual fraud risks.
These risks are the ones that remain after management has implemented
initial internal controls to reduce and manage threats. The leading
practices of conducting risks assessments and developing a fraud risk
profile based on that assessment work in tandem, but we found that
USADF had not effectively implemented either practice.
In its response to the 2024 USAID OIG management advisory, USADF
indicated its intention to develop and implement a comprehensive fraud
risk management framework by January 2025. However, we found that it
had not done so. USADF outlined plans that included risk assessment
procedures, preventive controls, detection mechanisms, response
protocols, regular monitoring, and review processes. USADF also
described plans to develop continuous monitoring of the effectiveness of
the fraud risk management framework with corresponding timelines after
implementation. Despite the written statement that they would take these
steps, USADF leadership had not prioritized putting such a framework in
place. According to the agency’s officials, this was because it did not
have the necessary human resources to implement the changes.
We also found that USADF did not have policies or procedures for
assessing fraud risk at the country level, according to USADF officials.
While USADF’s grant process involved project level risk assessment as
31According to Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government, a risk tolerance
is the acceptable level of variation in performance relative to the achievement of
objectives. In the context of fraud risk management, if the objective is to mitigate fraud
risks—in general, to have a very low level of fraud—the risk tolerance reflects managers’
willingness to accept a higher level of fraud risks, and it may vary depending on the
circumstances of the program.
Page 31 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 37

part of its financial assessment of each grantee, it is important for
agencies to assess risk at the program level as well.
According to the fraud risk framework, an agency should plan to conduct
a fraud risk assessment at regular intervals and identify specific tools,
methods, and sources for gathering information about fraud risks that are
specific to their programs’ characteristics. Agencies can identify these
risks by collecting data on fraud schemes and trends from monitoring and
detection activities. For example, some programs develop surveys or
conduct focus groups that specifically address fraud risks and related
control activities. However, according to USADF officials, it had no
designated person or team to carry out a fraud risk assessment at the
country level, nor had USADF completed a fraud risk assessment or fraud
risk profile.
Additionally, tailoring fraud risk assessments to the specific operating
environment is important because the prevalence or likelihood of certain
fraud risks may vary for each country. Although, according to USADF
officials, USADF had not conducted a fraud risk assessment at the
country level, some partner organizations in-country had adjusted their
procedures for grant monitoring based on past experiences or country
need, which could be adopted in any future fraud risk assessments.
According to in-country staff in Nigeria, based on collaboration they had in
the past with implementing partner staff in other countries USADF
operates in, each country may have approached fraud risk and other
operations differently. For example, according to in-country staff in
Nigeria, they required some grantees to submit monthly reports, which is
more frequent than USADF quarterly reporting requirements. According
to in-country staff, they chose this approach so they could monitor grants
more frequently and address concerns quickly. However, USADF had no
strategic approach or policy guiding country-specific actions, according to
agency officials. Therefore, without guidance from headquarters,
countries may vary in whether they are taking such additional steps.
While according to USADF officials, it did not conduct fraud risk
assessments or develop fraud risk profiles to guide risk management,
USADF policy stated that in-country staff were expected to monitor fraud
risks during site visits, audits, and quarterly reviews. According to in-
country staff in Nigeria, if they identified a fraud risk during site visits or if
auditors presented recommendations, in-country staff were expected to
work with the grantee to implement corrective action. This occasionally
led to grant termination, according to in-country staff.
Page 32 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 38

USADF policy stated that USADF may terminate a grant due to (1) grant
resources not being used as planned to achieve grant purposes, (2)
external circumstances, or (3) the conduct of the grantee. However,
conducting site visits was not always possible—inhibiting USADF’s ability
to identity and address fraud risks.32 For example, in-country staff in
Nigeria told us that visiting grantees in rural areas or areas with security
concerns had been a challenge that, at times, prevented them from
conducting these site visits.
As we have previously reported, guidance provided to foreign assistance
program officials and partners on developing a fraud risk profile tailored to
their country’s risk would better position them to systematically identify
and address program fraud risks.33 In this case, USADF in-country staff
would be better able to effectively modify their procedures and controls to
mitigate internal and country-specific fraud risks.
USADF Had Not Fully Effective fraud managers develop, document, and communicate an
Designed and antifraud strategy based on the results of a fraud risk assessment, which
USADF had not completed. USADF had taken some steps to design and
Implemented a Strategy to
implement a strategy to mitigate fraud but had not fully implemented
Mitigate Fraud
leading practices such as:
1. documenting an antifraud strategy based on its overall susceptibility
to fraudulent activities,
2. designing and implementing a strategy with specific control
activities to mitigate assessed fraud risks,
32USADF’s site visit policy stated that the CPC should conduct at least one site visit to
every grantee at least once every two years, or as determined by an annual monitoring
plan determined by the Regional Portfolio Manager. Each annual monitoring plan should
ensure that all grantees receive a site visit from the in-country or headquarters staff.
Implementing partner staff should visit programs at least three times during the first year
of the project, and at least annually thereafter. Every site visit should be documented in a
site visit report and reported to USADF headquarters.
33In 2024, we found that USAID missions in conflict zones and other countries were not
conducting fraud risk assessments that were specific to their program and country
contexts. We recommended that USAID issue guidance requiring them to do so, noting
that tailoring fraud risk assessments to the specific operating environment in a country is
important because the prevalence or likelihood of certain fraud risks may vary for each
country. See, GAO, Foreign Assistance: USAID Should Strengthen Risk Management in
Conflict Zones, GAO-24-106192, (Washington, D.C.: Apr. 30, 2024) and Central America:
USAID Should Strengthen Staffing and Fraud Risk Management for Initiative Addressing
Migration to the U.S., GAO-24-106232, (Washington, D.C.: Mar 14, 2024).
Page 33 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 39

3. developing a plan outlining how the program will respond to
identified fraud, and
4. collaborating with stakeholders to help ensure effective
implementation, see table 4.
Table 4: U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) Had Not Fully Followed Leading Practices in Its Efforts to Design and
Implement a Strategy to Mitigate Fraud, Fiscal Years 2020–2024
Leading Practices
(Design and implement fraud mitigation strategies) USADF Antifraud Policies Status
Determine risk responses and document an antifraud No steps taken to develop an antifraud strategy Not met
strategy based on the risk profile
Design and implement specific control activities to prevent Some control activities to prevent and detect fraud, but Partially met
and detect fraud (e.g. fraud-awareness initiatives, not all activities were consistently conducted
employee-integrity activities, reporting mechanisms, and
data-analytics activities)
Develop a plan outlining how the program will respond to Some steps to outline how the program would respond Partially met
identified instances of fraud to identified fraud among grantees, but not in other
areas
Establish collaborative relationships with stakeholders and Some policies in place to coordinate with stakeholders, Partially met
create incentives to help ensure effective implementation of but broader coordination was at the discretion of the
an antifraud strategy local staff
Source: GAO analysis of USADF documents. | GAO-25-107574
Determine risk responses and document an antifraud strategy based
on risk profile. According to USADF officials, USADF had not completed
a fraud risk assessment or fraud risk profile, therefore, it had not
documented an antifraud strategy to address identified risks. We found
that USADF had developed and documented some internal control
policies to prevent, detect, and respond to fraud that it could use to
implement leading practices in the future. For example, a USADF policy
called for partners to visit projects at least once each year after the first
year of implementation and that grantees were to submit quarterly reports
documenting the status of funds and tracking project progress.
As mentioned above, USADF had a grant termination policy it used in
response to fraudulent grantees and a policy that provided that
employees and contractors had a responsibility to report suspected
instances of fraud. In contrast to leading practices, USADF did not have a
strategy for identifying and documenting risks to ensure internal control
policies and processes mitigated them, according to USADF officials.
Design and implement specific control activities to prevent and
detect fraud. According to the fraud risk framework, effective managers
of fraud risks use the program’s fraud risk profile to determine the
Page 34 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 40

suitability of existing fraud controls and to decide how to allocate
resources to respond to residual fraud risks. Therefore, managers are
expected to develop and document an antifraud strategy that describes
the program’s approach for addressing the prioritized fraud risks. As part
of an antifraud strategy, managers who effectively manage fraud risks
design and implement specific control activities including policies,
procedures, techniques, and mechanisms to prevent and detect potential
fraud. Managers may design and implement new control activities or
revise existing control activities to reduce the likelihood or impact of a
risk.
Effective management of fraud risks starts with fraud prevention.
Preventing fraud helps to avoid a costly “pay-and-chase” model—when
payments are made before a fraudulent transaction is detected and
actions to pursue recovery of the funds are necessary. Control activities
that effectively prevent and detect fraud may involve fraud-awareness
initiatives, employee-integrity activities, reporting mechanisms, and data
analytics activities.
• Fraud-awareness initiatives. Increasing managers’ and employees’
awareness of potential fraud schemes through training and education
can serve a preventive purpose by helping to create a culture of
integrity and compliance within the program. Moreover, increasing
fraud awareness can enable managers and employees to better
detect potential fraud. USADF officials told us that it periodically
conducted fraud training for its headquarters staff but did not have a
documented fraud awareness training policy. In its 2024 management
advisory, the OIG reported that USADF headquarters staff received
one fraud awareness briefing between 2020 and 2024. According to
USADF officials, this was partially due to the pandemic.
In August 2024, the OIG recommended USADF schedule fraud
awareness briefings and according to USADF officials, such training
had since occurred for its headquarters staff. However, there
remained no policy or plan to ensure such training happens regularly
moving forward. The fraud training did not include USADF contractors
or grantees, including Country Program Coordinators and
implementing partner staff, according to USADF officials. In our
interviews with in-country staff in Zambia and Nigeria, staff mentioned
receiving ethics training on a regular basis, but some were not familiar
with training provided specifically on fraud.
Page 35 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 41

The fraud risk framework states that agencies should require all
employees, including managers, to attend fraud awareness training
upon hiring and on an ongoing basis thereafter, and maintain records
to track compliance. Further, fraud awareness training should include
stakeholders with responsibility for implementing aspects of the
program, including contractors and other external entities responsible
for fraud controls. Without regular training for USADF staff,
contractors, and implementing partners, USADF cannot ensure that it
is adequately protecting USADF funding from fraud risks.
• Employee-integrity activities. USADF had some procedures
designed to prevent fraud among headquarters staff. As previously
mentioned, the agency conducted ethics training separately from the
USAID OIG fraud awareness training. The annual ethics training used
the Uniform Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the
Executive Branch and included information for employees about:
• receiving and giving gifts between outside sources and
employees,
• conflicts of interest, impartiality when performing official duties,
and
• the misuse of official positions.
However, USADF officials told us that while the ethics training was
regularly conducted for headquarters staff, the training occurred only
on an ad hoc basis for in-country staff. The ad hoc nature of the
training occurred because there was no policy to ensure such training
had been completed and because there were vacancies in the Office
of General Counsel, according to USADF officials.
Other policies designed to prevent fraud among staff included
financial disclosure requirements and identifying and reporting
conflicts of interest in the grant selection and development processes,
as previously mentioned. The fraud risk framework outlines leading
practices that help ensure employee integrity. These include
conducting background checks to screen employees for integrity
issues as well as developing and communicating a standard of
conduct that applies to all employees, including leadership. This
communication should include general expectations of behavior,
prohibited behavior, and the program’s response to violations of the
standard of conduct, among other things. Employee-integrity activities
can prevent fraud by helping managers to establish a culture
Page 36 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 42

conducive to fraud risk management. Without this culture, the agency
is more vulnerable to fraud, waste, and abuse.
• Reporting mechanisms. An important part of an agency’s response
to fraud risks is referring instances of potential fraud to the OIG or
other appropriate parties, such as law-enforcement entities or the
Department of Justice. USADF officials in headquarters, and some in-
country staff in the two case study countries that we examined, cited
their awareness of several different avenues to report suspected
fraud, waste, or abuse. For example, they told us that they were
aware they could report suspicions to their supervisor or the General
Counsel. In-country staff also told us that grantees can contact the
implementing partner staff or Country Program Coordinator directly to
report problems.
Although USADF policy included mail, phone, fax, and email contact
information for employees, contractors, and others to report non-
criminal or criminal misuse of grant or contract fund allegations, some
USADF staff told us they would report such instances to their
supervisor and did not mention the USADF policy. The fraud risk
framework stipulates providing multiple options in addition to hotlines
for reporting potential fraud, such as online systems, e-mail, fax,
written formats, or face-to-face.
Even though USADF policy stated that persons reporting allegations
of fraud, waste, or abuse may remain anonymous, some employees
told us that they were unaware of a mechanism to report such
suspicions anonymously. In addition, in USAID OIG’s August 2024
management advisory, it stated that USADF’s website lacked a direct
link to the OIG’s website, which is required by law to help facilitate
reporting and awareness of OIG and its authorities. In response to
USAID OIG’s recommendation, USADF updated its website with a link
to the OIG hotline.
The fraud risk framework also states that agencies should ensure
individuals outside the agency such as vendors, program
beneficiaries, and the public who may be aware of potential fraud, can
report it. According to USADF policy, all USADF employees and
contractors were expected to assist in efforts to combat fraud, waste,
and abuse. USADF grantee organizations were encouraged, but not
required, to report suspected fraud, waste, or abuse, per USADF
policy.
Page 37 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 43

Further, agencies should take steps to ensure individuals feel
comfortable raising suspicions by providing them the opportunity to
report suspicions anonymously if preferred, treating all reports
confidentially and establishing policies that prohibit retaliation for
employees who make reports in good faith. Reporting mechanisms
help managers to detect instances of potential fraud, and they can
also deter potential fraudulent behavior if there is a belief that it will be
reported to the intended party.
• Data analytics activities. USADF had several control activities aimed
at preventing or detecting fraud at the grantee level through collecting
and analyzing data. Specific activities may have involved conducting
site visits, verifying compliance with legal and financial policies,
monitoring progress against performance indicators, and ensuring the
project has a budget. Prior to approving grant applications, USADF
officials and in-country staff conducted site visits for applicants and
collected due diligence documentation, which assists in determining
which organizations should or should not receive grant funding. For
example, in-country staff told us that they conducted a site visit prior
to grant approval and identified a potential fraudulent grantee. The in-
country staff had traveled to conduct the due diligence site visit and
asked for the organization, but found that community members were
unaware of the organization’s existence. Further investigation
determined the organization was fictitious.
According to USADF documentation and staff, at a minimum, due
diligence documentation requirements included:
• evidence the applicant had obtained or had applied for legal
recognition from relevant country authorities,
• current organizational statutes or internal regulations,
• land ownership/use, or rental documents, if applicable,
• a most recent financial statement, if applicable,
• documents on any loan or outstanding debt, and
• the USADF disclosure statement.
According to USADF policy, USADF officials were supposed to review
these documents to ensure applications contained accurate information.
USADF and in-country staff then worked with the grantee to develop a
grant proposal, which included a project budget, milestones, and a
financial assessment. USADF headquarters staff also conducted a
Page 38 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 44

compliance review of all grant proposals, which included a review of all
legal, environmental, safety, and financial aspects of the project.
USADF policy required grantees to submit quarterly reports documenting
the status and use of USADF funds received and tracking project
progress toward grant objectives. USADF used data in these quarterly
reports to monitor progress for each project. According to in-country staff,
if they identified concerns in the quarterly reports, this may have
prompted more frequent site visits and possible remediation, if needed.
During site visits, in-country staff told us they reviewed financial and
procurement records for corroboration and then submitted a site visit
report to USADF headquarters.
The fraud risk framework notes that data on program implementation and
integrity would ideally be collected in a variety of ways. Site visits can be
an important part of this oversight process. The fraud risk framework also
states that agencies can take a risk-based approach to data analytics and
consider the benefits and costs of investing in specific data-analytic tools
and techniques.
Develop a plan outlining how the program will respond to identified
fraud. USADF outlined how the program would respond to identified
fraud among grantees in its grant termination and misuse of funds
policies, but according to USADF officials it did not address how it would
respond to fraud within headquarters and leadership roles. In-country
staff told us that when they identified suspected fraud among grantees,
they reported the situation to their immediate supervisor or Country
Program Coordinator, who then relayed the issue to the program staff and
General Counsel in headquarters. One in-country staff member also
mentioned that they were aware of USADF policy requirements to report
suspected fraud to the USAID OIG hotline. However, as mentioned
previously, other staff we spoke to did not know where to find this contact
information. According to USADF policy, a project may be subject to
termination for cause if a grantee had fraudulently misrepresented
material facts during the application or project development process.
As noted above, USADF had some fraud prevention and reporting
policies and procedures in place such as the misuse of grant funds policy
and ethics trainings, but it did not have a plan outlining how the agency
would respond to fraud at the headquarters level according to USADF
officials. USADF officials told us that leadership had not prioritized
dedicating the human resources needed for more fully designing and
Page 39 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 45

implementing a plan to respond to fraud at the headquarters level,
focusing instead on grantee policies and procedures.
Establish collaborative relationships with stakeholders and create
incentives to help ensure effective implementation of the antifraud
strategy. USADF had taken some steps to establish collaborative
relationships with stakeholders to manage fraud risks, but improvements
could be made to help ensure these relationships contribute to effective
implementation of an antifraud strategy. For example, USADF policy
stated that the President of USADF is responsible for sending a
notification to the U.S. ambassador for the relevant country for all new
activities in that country at least 15 days in advance of funding the
activity. The notification consisted of a brief letter from the USADF
President to the U.S. ambassador of the country where the proposed
activity was located and an executive summary of the project, according
to USADF policy. According to USADF officials, such notification gave the
U.S. embassy the opportunity to respond and raise potential concerns
regarding the organization USADF was considering for an award, such as
identifying any applicants that were bad actors on record with the U.S.
embassy. This vetting step could be used to inform USADF’s decision on
whether to fund a potential grantee, based on any known information
about the applicant’s risk level.
However, USADF notified the ambassador at the end of the grant award
process, right before the grant is awarded, and the notification was largely
seen as a formality, according to some senior USADF and U.S. embassy
staff. U.S. embassy staff in Zambia also told us that they were not
expected to respond to the ambassadorial notification.
Additionally, USADF officials told us that in-country staff collaboration with
stakeholders, including the embassy, was at the discretion of the Country
Program Coordinator, and it varied among countries. USADF had a policy
that outlined its relationship with other foreign affairs agencies, which
could have been used to ensure that better coordination occurs.
However, we found that the level of collaboration with other U.S.
government agencies varied among our case study countries and was
limited in Zambia. According to embassy staff in Zambia, USAID
previously worked with several trained and vetted small agriculture-based
companies in Zambia that USADF could have leveraged if it had worked
more closely with USAID. Information sharing with USAID in these cases
could have also provided USADF with more information regarding any
potential fraud risks associated with applications or emerging fraud
schemes in Zambia.
Page 40 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 46

Without standardized policies to guide collaboration with U.S. partners in
the countries that USADF operates in, the agency misses the opportunity
to obtain critical information related to potential grantees or other
organizations in each country within which USADF operates. As a result,
USADF’s risk-based decision making about who and what projects it
funds could be better informed. That information is particularly important
in countries that are perceived as having higher levels of public
corruption. Agencies that effectively manage fraud risks collaborate and
communicate with internal and external stakeholders to share information
on fraud risks and emerging fraud schemes as well as lessons learned
related to fraud control activities, according to principles in the fraud risk
framework.
Although, as of fiscal year 2024, USADF had some policies and
USADF Had
procedures to use award funds appropriately, they were sometimes not
Inadequate Policies,
followed, unclear, outdated, undocumented, inadequate, or insufficiently
managed. We found several instances where USADF potentially used an
Procedures, and
award type that did not align with legal requirements.34 In addition,
Practices to Ensure
USADF in-country staff and implementing partners in Nigeria and Zambia
the Appropriate Use told us that the USADF policies and procedures provided to them were
not always sufficient to guide their work. Without updated and
of Award Funds
comprehensive award policies and procedures, USADF may be unable to
ensure its award funds are used appropriately to achieve its mission and
according to federal standards.
USADF Did Not Have USADF did not have internal policies or procedures to help guide award
Policies or Procedures for type decisions, and we found instances where USADF may have chosen
an award type that did not follow legal requirements. For example,
Guiding Decisions on
USADF used a contract and cooperative agreement to obtain travel
Choosing Award Types
coordination services. The Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act
of 1977 provides agencies with criteria to be considered when making
award type decisions. This includes the intended nature of the
3431 U.S.C. §§ 6301-6305.
Page 41 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 47

relationship between the agency and recipient and the principal purpose
of the award.35
Award type decisions impact other elements of awards because different
regulations are applicable based on award type, and federal law requires
that contracts, cooperative agreements, and grants be used for specific
purposes. For example, competition and oversight requirements differ for
contracts compared with grants and cooperative agreements. Based on
the act, awards for travel coordination services that are directly used by
the U.S. government would generally be awarded via a contract and not a
cooperative agreement.
We also found an instance where USADF used a cooperative agreement
to continue paying a PSC after their contract had expired, according to
officials. Officials said they felt pressured by the USADF President to use
this award type to prevent a gap in payment, which officials said they felt
was inappropriate. Officials said this approach is not a best practice and
that the use of this type of agreement should be limited and rare. USADF
officials said they did not have sufficient agency policies or procedures to
guide decisions on choosing an award type. They also noted that the
reporting structure at USADF sometimes caused issues related to award
type decisions. Having documented policies and procedures to guide
award type decisions could help officials respond to pressure to choose
the incorrect award type and promote accountability for these decisions.
USADF officials said they also did not document the rationale for
choosing a specific award type. Officials acknowledged that documenting
the rationale for choosing a specific award type would improve
transparency, but it was not a requirement in agency policy. Officials
noted that agency leadership had not prioritized dedicating human and
technical resources to implementing policies for this internal control.
Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government states that
management should design control activities to achieve objectives and
35According to the act, cooperative agreements must be used when the principal purpose
is the transfer of money, property, or services, or anything of value to a recipient to
accomplish a public purpose authorized by law and substantial involvement is expected
between the agency and the recipient. Grants must be used for the same principal
purpose but when substantial involvement is not expected. Procurement contracts must
be used when the principal purpose of the award is to acquire property or services for the
direct benefit or use of the U.S. government, or when the agency decides in a specific
instance that the use of a contract is appropriate. Pub. L. No. 95-224, 92 Stat. 3 (Feb. 3,
1978), codified as amended at 31 U.S.C. §§ 6301-6308. One of the stated purposes of the
act is to maximize competition in making procurement contracts and encourage
competition in making grants and cooperative agreements.
Page 42 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 48

respond to risks, including ensuring appropriate documentation of internal
controls.36 A lack of sufficient policies and procedures to guide award
funding decisions not only leads to a lack of transparency, but it creates
the risk of potential misuse of funds and opens the door for management
override, which increases the risk of fraud, waste, or abuse.
Many USADF Grant USADF policies and procedures outlined the process for selecting,
Policies and Procedures developing, monitoring, and overseeing USADF grants, but many of the
polices were outdated or undocumented. We found that during USADF
Were Outdated or
headquarters review of applications, staff used a due diligence checklist
Undocumented
to ensure applicants qualified for USADF funding and provided all
required documentation, see figure 9.
Figure 9: U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) Grant Process
However, many of the policies were outdated or undocumented. Outdated
and undocumented policies and procedures can lead to
misunderstandings or uncertainty about the correct award procedures to
follow and creates financial risks.
36GAO-14-704G
Page 43 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 49

Outdated award policies and procedures. Various sections of the
USADF policy manual outlined grant policies and procedures. However,
although USADF policy stated that its policies should be updated when it
becomes apparent that changes are required, these manual sections
were out of date and did not match staff training materials or what was
done in practice.
A USADF official said most of the General Counsel’s time was spent
reviewing USADF grants for compliance, with little or no time to review
and update the policy manuals. According to officials, in May 2024,
USADF hired a new Associate General Counsel, which staff hoped would
free up more time to focus on important tasks such as updating the policy
manual to match what was being done in practice. For example, officials
told us that energy grants followed a policy manual section that was
created in 2016, but that this section needed to be updated to reflect
actual practices.
USADF officials told us that many energy grants required a waiver
because while the policy manual section stated that this award type
cannot be over $100,000 or last longer than 18 months, they had learned
that these requirements were not realistic because energy grants typically
required more time and money. An official said a memo was submitted a
few years ago to update the policy, but due to staff turnover in the Office
of General Counsel, the policy had still not been updated as of February
2025. This difference in policy and actual practice opens the door for risk,
if not managed appropriately.
USADF’s grant disbursement policy, which was last updated in 2009, was
also out of date. According to an official, the mechanisms described in the
policy manual section were no longer accurate as the policy predated the
current grant management system. An official said there were several
written guidance documents that described the process, but some of the
mechanisms included in the guidance were also no longer current.
Officials responsible for updating USADF policies said they did not have
time to focus on updating grant policies and procedures. One official said
this was because USADF was understaffed.
Officials also said they did not have a process to update their policies.
This was because, according to officials, agency leadership had not
prioritized or dedicated personnel to ensure grant policies and procedures
were current and comprehensive. In addition, officials said turnover and
vacancies in the Office of General Counsel had impacted their ability to
Page 44 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 50

update policies. Instead, there was more of an emphasis on updating
training materials, according to officials.
Undocumented policies and procedures. USADF had several
practices that were not documented in formal policies and procedures.
This lack of documentation may have led to misunderstandings about
what award processes and procedures to follow, or confusion about roles
and responsibilities. For example, USADF’s policy manual did not
mention expectations for how to use its current grant management
system. According to officials, USADF leadership had prioritized providing
such guidance to staff through training rather than through policies.
USADF also did not have policies or procedures to guide country
programs that did not have a CPC on site, according to officials. USADF
officials said they typically did not have a CPC in certain countries
because the programs were small or only in one region of a country.
Officials said the implementing partner typically took on the role of the
CPC in countries without one, which meant they also conducted the
solicitation for grants. As of January 2025, USADF did not have a CPC in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, South Sudan, Somalia, or
Burundi. This undocumented policy and related procedures could lead to
uncertainty about roles and responsibilities, potentially leading to a lack of
segregation of duties, raising the risk of the misuse of funds.
USADF Policies and Although USADF had some policies and procedures for cooperative
Procedures for agreements, we found that they were sometimes unclear, outdated or
undocumented, which could lead to confusion over which award type
Cooperative Agreements
should be used, and how they should be managed. For example, USADF
Were Sometimes Unclear,
used cooperative agreements under two internally defined types,
Outdated, or
cooperative agreement partnerships (CAP) and cooperative agreement
Undocumented grants (CAG). USADF used CAPs to hire local implementing partners to
oversee project grants and used CAGs for other purposes, such as to hire
a travel agency to help with administrative and travel needs in Africa.
However, these two award types were not defined anywhere in USADF
policy, including their intended purposes.
We found that some implementing partners were funded through both a
CAP and a CAG. For example, officials said when an implementing
partner also oversaw partnership grants, USADF would typically award
them a CAG for this work, in addition to their standard CAP. According to
officials, CAG awards were not competitively awarded, but CAPs were.
Officials said USADF conducted market research to find an organization
to meet its needs for CAGs, but this process was informal and not
Page 45 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 51

documented. Officials acknowledged that documenting this process
would increase transparency for its CAG awards.
According to U.S. Code, government agencies must use cooperative
agreements as opposed to grants when “substantial involvement” is
anticipated between the government and the recipient. Conversely, grants
must be used instead of cooperative agreements when such substantial
involvement is not anticipated. USADF outlines the substantial
involvement it anticipates in its CAP awards, but did not always do so it in
its CAG awards.
USADF also appeared to sometimes use the terms grants and
cooperative agreements interchangeably, even though federal law
defines them as distinct award types that contemplate different levels of
involvement from the government. For example, USADF awarded a CAG
to an organization in Cote D’Ivoire in 2020, but throughout the award
agreement, the terms cooperative agreement and grant were both used.
According to USADF officials, CAGs followed USADF’s standard grant
policies, which, as previously noted, were also outdated or
undocumented. In addition, USADF’s policy manual did not document
that CAGs should follow its grant policies. Officials told us that CAGs had
different reporting requirements and budget structures, than CAPs. In
addition, the level of engagement from headquarters staff was different.
CAGs and CAPs also had different audit requirements, according to
officials. According to USADF’s grant audit policy, with some exceptions,
all grants over $100,000 shall receive an audit at the appropriate time
during the life cycle of the grant as well as up to three years after grant
expiration. Agency officials told us the audit policy for grants should also
apply to CAGs, but this was not documented. All CAPs should be audited
annually, according to USADF grant audit policy.
USADF policies for CAP oversight covered disbursement procedures,
financial and accounting requirements, and audit guidelines. However, we
found that one of the policies was more than 10 years old, one was more
than 15 years old, and another was more than 30 years old. USADF
officials told us that as a result, many of their policies no longer matched
what they did in practice. USADF officials said that other guidance for
CAPs was documented in templates such as the request for application
and the award agreement, and also in training materials. We found that
some of the information included in these documents was not outlined in
official policy. For example, the CAP award template outlined various
ways in which the agreement could be terminated, but this was not
Page 46 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 52

outlined in an official policy document. According to officials, agency
leadership had not prioritized or dedicated resources to ensure all
cooperative agreement policies and procedures were up-to-date and
documented.
We also found that unclear or missing guidance contributed to instances
where USADF may have used CAGs inappropriately. For example,
according to an official, USADF wanted to pursue a contract with a
technical partner, before deciding to enter into a cooperative agreement
with a different organization, which then provided most of the funding to
this technical partner. As noted previously, certain federal award types
must be used for specific purposes and under specific anticipated
circumstances. Without clear, up-to-date, and documented policies and
procedures for cooperative agreements, including potential partners,
USADF opens the door for the misuse of funds.
USADF Had Insufficient We found that USADF had insufficient internal policies and procedures for
Internal Policies and contract awards and, ARC officials told us about questionable practices in
which USADF engaged when making awards. USADF used contracts for
Procedures on Contract
various purposes, including to hire staff both domestically and abroad.
Awards and Engaged in
The agency used ARC services to support the awarding of these
Questionable Contracting
contracts, according to USADF officials.
Practices
USADF lacked policies or procedures outlining roles and responsibilities
for contract management, which could make it easier for an individual to
commit fraud. USADF also did not have written policies or procedures for
the use of sole source contracts. USADF did not develop their own
policies and procedures for contract awards because, according to
officials, they used ARC’s Customer Care Package as their policy
instead.37 However, ARC officials informed us that their package provided
basic “cheat sheet” information for their clients and was not intended to
be a policy document.
USADF officials said they also relied on other guidance, at times. For
example, USADF officials said the Contracting Officer’s Representative
(COR) designation letters outlined some relevant guidance. Specifically,
the letter identified authorities and duties for USADF’s CORs. However,
the information in the letter was general and was not included in USADF’s
official policy manual. In addition, the letter did not contain information
37ARC’s Customer Care Package outlines the services it provides to its government
clients, along with guidance on what to include in an acquisition package and timelines
and due dates.
Page 47 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 53

outlining USADF’s policy or process for assigning CORs or the required
training to become a COR. It also did not include information specific to
USADF, such as the role of program staff in overseeing contractors.
USADF also engaged in questionable contract award practices regarding
the integrity of these awards, according to ARC officials. ARC officials
reported raising with USADF various concerns about its contracting
practices. For example, ARC officials said USADF staff had steered
contracts to former USADF contractual employees, cancelled solicitations
when desired prior contract employees did not win the contract, and
directed ARC on who to hire and what to pay their former contractual
employees. ARC officials noted that these practices all go against Federal
Acquisition Regulation (FAR) provisions related to procurement
integrity.38 These practices can also be a sign of potential procurement
fraud and abuse schemes, such as bid rigging and unjustified sole source
awards.39
According to USADF officials, part of the reason that they did not have
contract award policies and procedures, was the lack of staff to develop
and implement them. In addition, USADF last had its own contracting
officer in 2011 and had struggled to fill the position, according to officials.
Due to its concerns about USADF’s contract award practices, ARC
notified USADF in September 2023 that it would no longer support future
awards of certain contracts, such as those for USADF domestic PSCs,
starting in fiscal year 2025.40 In response, USADF officials reported that
they hired a contracting officer at the end of fiscal year 2024, but this
individual was not yet warranted at the time of our review, meaning they
could not execute, modify, or terminate a contract. USADF officials said
38FAR 3.104, Procurement Integrity.
39Contract or procurement fraud typically occurs when a government employee or
contractor knowingly and willfully executes a scheme to defraud the government or when
a party obtains information by deception or misrepresentation to receive inappropriate
payment from the government. Common schemes include collusive bidding or price fixing,
unjustified sole source awards, or other schemes that manipulate the procurement
process.
40ARC contracting staff addressed and documented the various concerns regarding
USADF’s repetitive actions over the course of several years, dating back to at least 2021.
Concerns persisted with USADF actions until 2023, at which time ARC procurement
representatives notified USADF regarding the cessation of services with regard to
domestic personal services contracts.
Page 48 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 54

their goal was to have the contracting officer warranted before the current
domestic PSCs were due to expire at the end of fiscal year 2025.
USADF faced similar challenges regarding the lack of policies and staff to
implement COR contract oversight responsibilities. USADF officials
acknowledged that there were no written policies or procedures related to
the oversight of contractors outside of the COR designation letter. In
addition, USADF officials said they did not have enough staff certified as
CORs to adequately oversee its contractors, especially program staff who
oversee grant implementation. The sole program staff member who was
COR certified oversaw all 15 foreign PSCs and one domestic PSC. As of
November 2024, USADF had three CORs on staff, but officials
acknowledged that they had not conducted workforce planning to
determine the appropriate number.
Without enough staff certified as CORs, USADF was not ideally situated
to provide adequate oversight of its contractors. In addition, without
conducting workforce planning, USADF was not positioned to determine
the appropriate number of CORs it should have on staff to provide such
oversight.
Overall, having internal policies and procedures for contract awards
would help USADF ensure that its contract awards are correctly used to
achieve its mission and reduce the risk of fraud, waste and abuse.
Without such policies and procedures, USADF may award contracts in
situations that are not in line with legal requirements. Further, without
enough trained contracting personnel, USADF cannot ensure that it is
conducting proper oversight of its contracts.
Recent Developments in During the time of our review, USADF underwent significant changes to
Agency Staffing and its staffing and operations which could limit the agency’s ability to follow
proper grant closure procedures, and increase the risk for potential fraud,
Operations Increased Risk
waste, and abuse. As discussed earlier in this report, implementing
of Fraud, Waste, and
partners operating in African countries have stopped implementing
Abuse USADF programs, since January 2025.
The majority of USADF grants were terminated, according to USADF
officials. However, USADF officials were unable to confirm which specific
grants remained active or were terminated because of their lack of access
to documentation. Specifically, between April and July 2025, all USADF
employees and contractors, including the one remaining official, lost
access to their grants management system and internal documents.
Page 49 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 55

USADF grant closeout policies required a full reconciliation of
disbursements and expenses for each grant and a summary of income
generating activities over the course of the grant agreement, among other
programmatic tasks. OMB Uniform Guidance requires grant closeout, and
USADF policies stated that such activities should be completed no later
than 150 days after grant agreement expiration.41
USADF officials’ lack of access to their systems between April and July
2025, limited their ability to conduct award closeout activities. In addition,
agency officials were not aware of any written plans with targets,
timetables, or tracking systems to ensure an orderly closeout process is
followed for the remaining active and completed grants. Sufficient staff
are needed to conduct closeout activities, such as reconciliation and
accounting for monetary assets in foreign bank accounts and ensuring
proper disposition of equipment and vehicles owned by the U.S.
Government. Without enough staff and resources to follow procedures for
orderly closeout, there is an increased risk of fraud, waste, or abuse of
unused taxpayer funds or assets being used for unintended purposes.
Since its creation in 1980, USADF has invested millions of dollars directly
Conclusions
to African-led community organizations and entrepreneurs to address
poverty in Africa, particularly among women and youth. However, USADF
had not prioritized workforce planning to ensure the agency had adequate
human resources to develop and implement a strategic approach to
maintaining updated internal controls and managing its fraud risks.
Managers of federal programs maintain the primary responsibility for
ensuring program integrity. Federal guidance and internal control
standards have increasingly focused on the need for program managers
to take a strategic approach to managing risks, including fraud.
At the time of this report, USADF was undergoing significant changes and
potential closure of its operations. Should USADF programs and
operations continue or resume within this agency or another in the future,
implementing a strategic approach to mitigating risks would help ensure
that funding and awards achieve the program’s mission and strategic
goals, while reducing the risk of fraud, waste, and abuse. A framework of
proactive fraud risk management would help ensure that taxpayer dollars
serve their intended purposes.
41Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for
Federal Awards, 2 C.F.R. § 200.344.
Page 50 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 56

Should USADF programs and operations resume in the future or be
Recommendations for
transferred to another entity, GAO makes the following four
Executive Action
recommendations to the USADF President or the head of any entity
assuming responsibility for USADF’s programs:
The USADF President should conduct workforce planning assessments
to determine USADF’s needs and ensure it has the necessary personnel
to support, among other things, establishing internal control policies,
assessing and mitigating fraud, ensuring appropriate separation of duties,
managing procurements, and maintaining up-to-date policies and
procedures. (Recommendation 1)
The USADF President should implement policies and processes for an
effective and strategic internal control environment for managing fraud
risks, waste, and abuse, such as ensuring the Board of Directors
establishes the required advisory council. (Recommendation 2)
The USADF President should establish a strategic approach to managing
fraud risks consistent with leading practices, such as designating
someone within USADF to lead fraud risk management activities;
planning regular program fraud risk assessments and developing a fraud
risk profile; conducting regular fraud-awareness training; and developing
a plan outlining how the program will respond to identified fraud.
(Recommendation 3)
The USADF President should develop a process to ensure that its
policies and procedures guiding decisions on and use of awards are
documented, reviewed periodically, and reflect relevant laws and
regulations. (Recommendation 4)
We provided a draft of this report to USADF and Treasury for review and
Agency Comments
comment. In its comments, reproduced in appendix II, USADF concurred
with our recommendations, stating that if USADF continues operations, it
is committed to strengthening its internal control environment and aligning
its practices with GAO's Fraud Risk Framework. Treasury did not have
any comments on the report.
We are sending copies of this report to the appropriate congressional
committees, USADF Executive Leadership, the Secretary of the Treasury,
and other interested parties. In addition, the report is available at no
charge on the GAO website at https://www.gao.gov.
Page 51 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 57

If you or your staff have any questions about this report, please contact
Latesha Love-Grayer at lovegrayerl@gao.gov. Contact points for our
Offices of Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on
the last page of this report. GAO staff who made key contributions to this
report are listed in appendix III.
Latesha Love-Grayer
Director, International Affairs and Trade
Page 52 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 58

Appendix I: Obj ectives, Scope, and
Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and
Methodology
Methodology
This report examines the extent to which U.S. African Development
Foundation (USADF) (1) had policies and procedures in place to
strategically prevent, detect, and respond to fraud, waste, and abuse, (2)
followed leading practices for managing fraud risks, and (3) had policies
and procedures to ensure funding for program and operational awards
were used to achieve its mission.
Our review covered programs and policies at USADF from fiscal years
2020 through 2024. However, given the significant changes occurring at
USADF after that time, we continued to collect and include information
related to our scope of fraud risk management, to fiscal year 2025, where
possible. In developing our scope, and throughout the engagement, we
coordinated closely with the USAID Office of the Inspector General (OIG)
which also had ongoing work on USADF. When possible, we coordinated
to minimize duplication and overlap between our work. For example, the
OIG’s scope focused on USADF grants funded through partnership
arrangements with private organizations, other U.S. government
agencies, and local African governments. Therefore, we chose to exclude
partnership grants from our review and focus on grants funded solely by
USADF, and activities funded through other mechanisms, such as
cooperative agreements and contracts.
We selected two case study countries, Nigeria and Zambia, to examine
USADF’s policies and procedures for managing fraud risks at the country
level. We based our selection of these countries on a number of criteria
including country budget; number of active awards; length and scope of
agency presence in location; fraud, waste, and abuse allegations raised;
and geographic diversity. Lastly, we scoped out the countries visited by
the USAID OIG as part of its related USADF work to minimize potential
overlap or duplication in our work. We reviewed documents and
conducted interviews with relevant program managers at headquarters
overseeing programs in Nigeria and Zambia, Country Program
Coordinators, and implementing partner staff. We also traveled to Zambia
to observe the results of USADF grants and interview grantees.
To examine the extent to which USADF had policies and procedures to
strategically prevent, detect, and respond to fraud, waste, and abuse, we
reviewed relevant laws, regulations, and guidance, such as the Payment
Integrity Information Act of 20191, Office of Management and Budget
1Pub. L. No. 116-117, 134 Stat. 113 (Mar. 2, 2020), codified at 31 U.S.C. §§ 3351-58.
Page 53 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix I: Obj ectives, Scope, and
Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and
Methodology |
| Methodology |

## Page 59

Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and
Methodology
(OMB) Circular A-1232, and GAO’s Standards for Internal Control in the
Federal Government. Specifically, we focused on principle 7, to identify,
analyze, and respond to risks related to achieving the defined objectives,
and principle 8, consider the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing, and responding to risks.3 We collected agency documents and
guidance and analyzed the extent to which they have policies and
processes in place to prevent, detect, and mitigate fraud, waste, and
abuse. These documents included policy and operations manuals,
training materials, ethics guidance, and other internal memos and
documents.
In addition to reviewing the written policies, we interviewed USADF
leadership and staff to learn about the policies and procedures USADF
has in place to strategically prevent, detect, and respond to fraud, waste,
and abuse, and staff understanding of these policies. We interviewed
USADF officials in Washington, D.C., including the Board of Directors,
and in our two case study countries, USADF leadership including the
Chief Financial Officer, Chief Program Officer, and General Counsel, and
other officials throughout the agency who were responsible for aspects of
finance and administration, audit, and program oversight.
We conducted a survey of all current USADF staff and contractors in fall
2024. This survey asked staff for their opinions and experiences related
to several issues such as ethics; resources; communication; agency
efforts to combat fraud, waste, and abuse; fraud risk assessments; and
agency culture. However, after conducting the survey, concerns were
raised about the ability of staff to honestly report their experiences and
opinions. Therefore, we used the responses to inform our audit work and
conduct individual interviews with USADF staff and contractors, but did
not report the results independently.
To assess the extent to which USADF followed leading practices for
managing fraud risks, we analyzed agency documents and interviewed
staff at both headquarters and in our two case study countries. We
collected and analyzed USADF policies and procedures including those
related to project quality assurance, grant termination, and reporting
allegations of improper conduct, among others. We also reviewed past
reports and audits conducted by USAID OIG including its Management
2Management’s Responsibility for Enterprise Risk Management and Internal Control, (July
15, 2016).
3GAO-14-704G.
Page 54 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 60

Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and
Methodology
Advisory on Nonreporting of Suspected Misuse of USADF Grant Funds
and Equipment, and Audits of USADF’s Financial Statements. We
identified leading practices from each of the following three components
for effectively managing fraud risks in GAO’s Fraud Risk Framework (the
fraud risk framework):4
1. commit to combating fraud by creating an organizational culture and
structure conducive to manage fraud risks,
2. plan regular fraud risk assessments and assess risks to determine a
fraud risk profile, and
3. design and implement a strategy with specific control activities to
identify and mitigate assessed fraud risks and collaborate to help
ensure effective implementation.
We selected leading practices from the Commit and Assess components
because establishing an organizational structure and identifying and
assessing fraud risks are key initial steps to developing effective fraud
risk management activities. Additionally, we selected leading practices
from the Design and Implement component because they represent
important steps for addressing the fraud risks USADF identified and
assessed. Based on our findings from the first three components of the
fraud risk framework, we did not assess whether USADF implemented
the fourth component of the framework because it was not applicable.5
The leading practices we selected from each component were chosen
because the use of these practices could be objectively verified.
For each of the leading practices, we compared agency steps, policies
and procedures against the criteria in the fraud risk framework to
determine whether USADF had generally met, partially met, or not met
each leading practice. Specifically, we reviewed agency documentation to
identify all steps and policies related to each leading practice. Two
analysts made judgements about whether those steps and policies were
generally met, partially met, or did not meet the standards laid out in the
fraud risk framework. We also conducted interviews with USADF officials,
4GAO, A Framework for Managing Fraud Risks in Federal Programs, GAO-15-593SP
(Washington, D.C.: July 28, 2015).
5The fourth component of the fraud risk framework is to evaluate outcomes of the
implementation of fraud risk management steps outlined in the first three components and
adapt activities to improve fraud risk management. However, based on our findings from
the first three components of the fraud risk framework, it would not have been possible for
USADF to monitor, evaluate, and adapt fraud risk management activities that they had not
developed or implemented.
Page 55 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 61

Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and
Methodology
headquarters staff, and in-country staff in our two case study countries,
Nigeria and Zambia, where we inquired about fraud risk management
policies and procedures within headquarters and in-country.
To assess the extent to which USADF had policies and procedures to
ensure funding for program and operational awards were used to achieve
its mission, we reviewed relevant regulations, and guidance including the
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)6, OMB Uniform Guidance7, OMB
Circular A-123, and GAO’s Standards for Internal Control in the Federal
Government. We asked staff to identify relevant award policies and
procedures and reviewed and analyzed these policies and procedures.
We also reviewed documentation for a selection of awards within our
scope to help provide illustrative examples of USADF awards. These
awards included contracts at both headquarters and in the field, including
in our two case study countries, cooperative agreements in the field and
in our two case study countries, and grants in our two case study
countries. This documentation was provided by USADF staff and officials,
awards recipients, and the Department of Treasury’s Administrative
Resource Center (ARC), who supported USADF contracting. We also
collected some award documentation from USADF’s grant management
system, GISEL. We did not assess the extent to which USADF followed
their award policies and procedures because many of their award policies
were out of date or undocumented. In addition, the USAID OIG was
conducting an assessment of USADF partnership awards, according to
USAID OIG staff. We also interviewed relevant agency staff in
Washington D.C. and staff and award recipients in our two case study
countries about the policies and procedures they used to ensure award
funding was used to achieve its mission. In addition, we asked agency
staff to outline the guidance, laws, and regulations they are required to
follow. We also interviewed officials from Treasury’s ARC.
We conducted this performance audit from May 2024 to September 2025
in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our
findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe that
648 C.F.R. Chapter 1.
72 C.F.R. Part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit
Requirements for Federal Awards (Apr. 22, 2024).
Page 56 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 62

Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and
Methodology
the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our findings and
conclusions based on our audit objectives.
Page 57 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 63

Appendix I I: Comments from the U.S. African
Appendix II: Comments from the U.S. African
Development Foundation
Development Foundation
Page 58 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix I I: Comments from the U.S. African
Appendix II: Comments from the U.S. African
Development Foundation |
| Development Foundation |

## Page 64

Appendix II: Comments from the U.S. African
Development Foundation
Page 59 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


## Page 65

Appendix III: GA O Contact and Staff
Appendix III: GAO Contact and Staff
Acknowledgments
Acknowledgments
Latesha Love-Grayer, lovegrayerl@gao.gov
GAO Contact
In addition to the contact named above, Godwin Agbara (Assistant
Staff
Director), Diana Blumenfeld (Analyst in Charge), Jessie Biltz, Neil
Acknowledgments
Doherty, Jeffrey Isaacs, Samantha Jorgensen, Donna Morgan, and Alex
Welsh made key contributions to this report. Also contributing to this
report were Seto J. Bagdoyan, Robert Bullock, Peter Del Toro, Toni
Gillich, Shirley Hwang, Laura Pacheco, Terry Richardson, and Matthew
Valenta.
Page 60 GAO-25-107574 U.S. African Development Foundation


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix III: GA O Contact and Staff
Appendix III: GAO Contact and Staff
Acknowledgments |
| Acknowledgments |

## Page 66

The Government Accountability Office, the audit, evaluation, and investigative
GAO’s Mission
arm of Congress, exists to support Congress in meeting its constitutional
responsibilities and to help improve the performance and accountability of the
federal government for the American people. GAO examines the use of public
funds; evaluates federal programs and policies; and provides analyses,
recommendations, and other assistance to help Congress make informed
oversight, policy, and funding decisions. GAO’s commitment to good government
is reflected in its core values of accountability, integrity, and reliability.
The fastest and easiest way to obtain copies of GAO documents at no cost is
Obtaining Copies of
through our website. Each weekday afternoon, GAO posts on its website newly
GAO Reports and released reports, testimony, and correspondence. You can also subscribe to
GAO’s email updates to receive notification of newly posted products.
Testimony
Order by Phone The price of each GAO publication reflects GAO’s actual cost of production and
distribution and depends on the number of pages in the publication and whether
the publication is printed in color or black and white. Pricing and ordering
information is posted on GAO’s website, https://www.gao.gov/ordering.htm.
Place orders by calling (202) 512-6000, toll free (866) 801-7077, or
TDD (202) 512-2537.
Orders may be paid for using American Express, Discover Card, MasterCard,
Visa, check, or money order. Call for additional information.
Connect with GAO on X, LinkedIn, Instagram, and YouTube.
Connect with GAO
Subscribe to our Email Updates. Listen to our Podcasts.
Visit GAO on the web at https://www.gao.gov.
Contact FraudNet:
To Report Fraud,
Website: https://www.gao.gov/about/what-gao-does/fraudnet
Waste, and Abuse in
Automated answering system: (800) 424-5454
Federal Programs
Sarah Kaczmarek, Managing Director, Media@gao.gov
Media Relations
A. Nicole Clowers, Managing Director, CongRel@gao.gov
Congressional
Relations
https://www.gao.gov/about/contact-us
General Inquiries
PleasePrintonRecycledPaper.

