---
title: "gao-25-107121"
processed_date: "2025-09-17T11:27:01.359046"
source_file: "gao-25-107121.pdf"
conversion_method: "pdfplumber"
---

# Document Metadata

- **Author**: U.S. Government Accountability Office, http://www.gao.gov
- **ContentTypeId**: 0x010100601E3C5A7646D24EB86DB2A4A3B965C1
- **CreationDate**: D:20250915153409-04'00'
- **Creator**: Acrobat PDFMaker 25 for Word
- **ModDate**: D:20250915171058-04'00'
- **Producer**: Adobe PDF Library 25.1.143
- **SourceModified**: D:20250915193137
- **Title**: GAO-25-107121, DOD CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS: About 500 Organizations Have Roles, with Some Potential Overlap

---

## Page 1

United States Government Accountability Office
Report to Congressional Committees
September 2025
DOD CYBERSPACE
OPERATIONS
About 500
Organizations Have
Roles, with Some
Potential Overlap
GAO-25-107121


### Tables

#### Table 1

| September 2025 |
|  |

#### Table 2

| GAO-25-107121 |  |

## Page 2

DOD CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS
Highlights About 500 Organizations Have Roles, with Some Potential
Overlap
GAO-25-107121 September 2025
A report to congressional committees.
For more information, contact: Joseph W. Kirschbaum, kirschbaumj@gao.gov
What GAO Found Why GAO Did This Study
According to data provided by Department of Defense (DOD) components, DOD The U.S. and its allies face
has established almost 440 organizations that contain about 61,000 military and sophisticated cyber threats from both
civilian personnel (and over 9,500 contractors), to conduct cyberspace state and nonstate actors. To counter
operations. These organizations are most often aligned with U.S. Cyber these threats, DOD conducts
Command (CYBERCOM) or retained by the military services and conduct a cyberspace operations to defend the
nation, support allies and partners, and
mixture of offensive, defensive, and DOD Information Network operations (see
protect its DOD Information Network.
figure). CYBERCOM-aligned organizations include organizations such as Navy
cyber strike activities and Army cyber protection battalions that oversee tactical Conference Report 118-301 includes a
Cyber Mission Force teams. Military service organizations include units such as provision for GAO to review DOD’s
Air Force communications squadrons and Marine Corps radio battalions. Other management of cyberspace operations.
organizations include cybersecurity service providers that provide network GAO (1) identified the type and number
protection services to non-service components, such as the Defense Threat of organizations and personnel that
Reduction Agency and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. conduct cyberspace operations and (2)
evaluated the extent to which there is
Department of Defense Organizations Conducting Cyberspace Operations overlap between organizations that
provide budgetary, personnel, policy, or
training support for cyberspace
operations.
GAO reviewed relevant documents,
including DOD guidance, Secretary of
Defense memorandums, and
organizational command briefs. GAO
collected and analyzed data from 434
organizations conducting and 70
organizations supporting cyberspace
operations that were identified with
DOD. GAO also interviewed relevant
officials, such as those from the offices
of the DOD and the military services’
principal cyber advisors.
What GAO Recommends
To enable organizations conducting cyberspace operations, each unit is
supported by organizations providing budgetary, personnel, policy, and training GAO is recommending that DOD
support. GAO identified 70 organizations and about 3,400 personnel that provide assess whether (1) similar cyberspace
support to cyberspace operations. These include the Office of the Secretary of training courses provided by the
Defense, military department, and service headquarters, and other organizations. services can be consolidated and (2)
there are opportunities to increase
GAO found that some of the functions of these organizations may overlap. These mission effectiveness and cost savings
include training courses the military services provide to organizations conducting by consolidating DOD cybersecurity
cyberspace operations and the administration of DOD’s 23 cybersecurity service service providers. DOD concurred with
providers that conduct cybersecurity for DOD organizations. Although some both recommendations and identified
overlap can be intentional and appropriate, unnecessary overlap can lead to actions it will take to implement them.
organizations paying for the same service or product twice or more. As DOD
considers the future organization and composition of its cyberspace operations
forces, it will be important to take steps to reduce cost and inefficiencies while
maintaining mission effectiveness.
United States Government Accountability Office


### Tables

#### Table 1

|  |  | DOD CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS |  |
|  |  | About 500 Organizations Have Roles, with Some Potential |  |
| Highlights |  |  |  |
|  |  | Overlap |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  | September 2025 |  |  |
| GAO-25-107121 |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

## Page 3

Contents
Letter 1
Background 4
About 440 DOD Organizations Conduct Cyberspace Operations 7
Some DOD Organizations Provide Similar Support to Cyberspace
Operations 14
Conclusions 20
Recommendations for Executive Action 21
Agency Comments and Our Response 21
Appendix I Objectives, Scope, and Methodology 24
Appendix II U.S. Cyber Command (CYBERCOM) Cyberspace Operations 29
Appendix III Army Cyberspace Operations 33
Appendix IV Navy Cyberspace Operations 37
Appendix V Marine Corps Cyberspace Operations 41
Appendix VI Air Force Cyberspace Operations 45
Appendix VII Space Force Cyberspace Operations 49
Appendix VIII Cybersecurity Service Provider (CSSP) Cyberspace Operations 52
Appendix IX Comments from the Department of Defense 56
Page i GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 4

Appendix X GAO Contact and Staff Acknowledgments 58
Tables
Table 1: Number of Service-Retained Organizations Conducting
Cyberspace Operations (Including Personnel and
Contractors) 11
Table 2: Organizations in Each Military Service Providing
Budgetary, Personnel, Policy, and Training Support 16
Table 3: Service Organizations Aligned with U.S. Cyber
Command’s (CYBERCOM) Cyberspace Operations 30
Table 4: Number of Personnel and Contractors in Cyber Mission
Force Teams 32
Table 5: Department of Defense (DOD) Cybersecurity Service
Providers (CSSP) 53
Figures
Figure 1: Cyberspace Operations Missions and Actions 5
Figure 2: Summary of DOD Organizations Conducting
Cyberspace Operations 8
Figure 3: Summary of U.S. Cyber Command (CYBERCOM)
Aligned Organizations Conducting Cyberspace
Operations 9
Figure 4: Summary of Service-Retained Organizations Conducting
Cyberspace Operations 11
Figure 5: Number of DOD Military and Civilian Personnel
Providing Budgetary, Personnel, Policy, Training Support 14
Figure 6: Number of U.S. Cyber Command (CYBERCOM)
Organizations Conducting Cyberspace Operations 29
Figure 7: U.S. Cyber Command Organizational Construct 31
Figure 8: Number of Army Organizations Conducting Cyberspace
Operations 33
Figure 9: Army Organizations and Associated Personnel That
Conduct Cyberspace Operations 34
Figure 10: Number of Army Military and Civilian Personnel
Providing Budgetary, Personnel, Policy, and Training
Support 36
Figure 11: Navy Organizations and Personnel Conducting
Cyberspace Operations 37
Figure 12: Navy Organizations and Associated Personnel That
Conduct Cyberspace Operations 38
Page ii GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 5

Figure 13: Number of Navy Military and Civilian Personnel
Providing Budgetary, Personnel, Policy, and Training
Support 40
Figure 14: Marine Corps Organizations and Personnel Conducting
Cyberspace Operations 41
Figure 15: Marine Corps Organizations and Associated Personnel
That Conduct Cyberspace Operations 42
Figure 16: Number of Marine Corps Military and Civilian Personnel
Providing Budgetary, Personnel, Policy, and Training
Support 44
Figure 17: Air Force Organizations and Personnel Conducting
Cyberspace Operations 45
Figure 18: Air Force Organizations and Associated Personnel
That Conduct Cyberspace Operations 46
Figure 19: Number of Air Force Military and Civilian Personnel
Providing Budgetary, Personnel, Policy, and Training
Support 48
Figure 20: Space Force Organizations and Personnel Conducting
Cyberspace Operations 49
Figure 21: Space Force Organizations and Associated Personnel
That Conduct Cyberspace Operations 50
Figure 22: Number of Space Force Military and Civilian Personnel
Providing Budgetary, Personnel, Policy, and Training
Support 51
Figure 23: Number of Cybersecurity Service Provide (CSSP)
Military and Civilian Personnel Providing Budgetary,
Personnel, Policy, and Training Support 55
Page iii GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 6

Abbreviations
CMF Cyber Mission Force
CSSP cybersecurity service provider
CYBERCOM U.S. Cyber Command
DOD Department of Defense
DODIN Department of Defense Information Network
RFI Request for Information
This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the
United States. The published product may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety
without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain
copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be
necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately.
Page iv GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 7

Letter
441 G St. N.W.
Washington, DC 20548
September 17, 2025
Congressional Committees
The United States and its allies face sophisticated cyber threats from both
state and nonstate actors.1 Russia conducted cyberspace attack activities
in the days prior to and after invading Ukraine on February 24, 2022. In
2024, U.S. government agencies assessed that cyber actors (including an
organization known as “Volt Typhoon”) sponsored by the People’s
Republic of China are seeking to preposition themselves on information
technology networks for disruptive or destructive cyber activities against
U.S. critical infrastructure in the event of a major crisis or conflict with the
United States.2 In another assessment, agencies noted that Iranian cyber
actors were compromising organizations across multiple U.S. critical
infrastructure sectors, including the health care, public health,
government, information technology, engineering, and energy sectors.3
These malicious cyber actors take actions to steal intellectual property
from U.S. businesses and health care data; hold hostage or expose data
for criminal enterprises; conduct espionage against U.S. government
systems; exploit vulnerabilities in blockchain technology and steal virtual
currency; and position themselves to cripple U.S. critical infrastructure at
a time of their choice.4 Given such actions, the Department of Defense
(DOD) conducts cyberspace operations to defend the nation, prepare to
1General Timothy D. Haugh, Commander, United States Cyber Command, posture
statement before the Senate Committee on Armed Services, 118th Cong., Apr. 10, 2024.
2Joint Cybersecurity Advisory, PRC State-Sponsored Actors Compromise and Maintain
Persistent Access to U.S. Critical Infrastructure, AA24-038A, Feb. 7, 2024.
3Joint Cybersecurity Advisory, Iranian Cyber Actors’ Brute Force and Credential Access
Activity Compromises Critical Infrastructure Organizations, AA24-290A, Oct. 16, 2024.
4Adam Meyers, Senior Vice President, Counter Adversary Operations, CrowdStrike; Rear
Admiral Mark Montgomery, U.S. Navy (Ret.), Senior Director, Center on Cyber and
Technology Innovation, Foundation for Defense of Democracies; and Kemba Walden,
President, Paladin Global Institute, Unconstrained Actors: Assessing Global Cyber
Threats to the Homeland, testimony before the House Committee on Homeland Security,
119th Cong., 1st sess., Jan. 22, 2025.
Page 1 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 8

fight and win the nation’s wars, and protect the cyber domain with allies
and partners.5
To conduct these DOD-led cyberspace operations, components across
the department have established offices, units, and commands
responsible for these activities. In addition to units that are established (in
part or whole) specifically for conducting cyberspace operations, there are
DOD and contractor personnel who conduct cyberspace operations but
are assigned to DOD organizations whose primary purpose is not
cyberspace operations. For example, the Navy identified more than 3,000
positions of sailors who conduct cyberspace operations (such as DOD
information network operations) while aboard Navy ships; however, those
positions are assigned to the ship and not an organization that conduct
cyberspace operations. We did not include these individuals within the
scope of this report as DOD did not have a way to identify them
consistently and reliably.
DOD cyberspace operations units and commands are supported through
the respective DOD component’s budget, policy, personnel, and training
offices, units, and commands. DOD considers cyberspace activities—
which include cyberspace operations, cybersecurity, and cyber research
and development—a high priority. The department included $14.5 billion
for cyberspace activities in its fiscal year 2025 budget request and has
taken or is undertaking efforts to improve its cyberspace operations. For
example, the department established a new policy official for cyber
operations—the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Cyber Policy—who is
responsible for all matters related to cyber-related activities that support
or enable DOD cyberspace missions as required by section 901 of the
James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2023.6
DOD is also considering several proposals to shape the future of its
cyberspace forces, including how DOD generates, trains, and organizes
for maximum effect. Complicating these efforts, however, is that DOD
cyberspace operations are complex and operational command and
control cuts across more than two dozen DOD components. As DOD and
Congress consider proposals regarding the future of DOD’s cyberspace
5According to Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff’s Joint Pub. 3-12 Joint Cyberspace
Operations (Dec. 19, 2022), cyberspace operations are the employment of cyberspace
capabilities where the primary purpose is to achieve objectives in or through cyberspace.
6Pub. L. No. 117-263, § 901 (2022).
Page 2 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 9

forces, it will be important that they have credible information regarding
the size, organization, and management of the department’s cyberspace
operations force.
The Conference Report accompanying the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 includes a provision for us to
conduct a review to identify the command staffs, secretariats,
organizations, units, and personnel that conduct cyberspace operations
or with any responsibility or management of budgetary, personnel, policy,
or training matters affecting cyberspace operations across DOD, as well
as other related issues.7 This report (1) identifies the type and number of
organizations and personnel that conduct DOD cyberspace operations;
and (2) evaluates the extent to which there is overlap between
organizations that provide budgetary, personnel, policy, or training
support for cyberspace operations.
To address the first objective, we developed a request for information
(RFI) and distributed it to 134 DOD organizations. We used this approach
because DOD does not have a readily available mechanism to identify
organizations, DOD personnel, or contractor personnel that conduct or
support cyberspace operations. We focused on organizations that DOD
officials identified as being organized for the purpose of conducting
cyberspace operations and counted the personnel and contractors within
those units. Through this approach, regardless of role, all personnel
(military, civilian, and contractor) who were assigned to the organization
would be counted. The RFI included questions regarding command-and-
control relationships and whether the organization conducts offensive,
defensive, or DOD Information Network (DODIN) operations. We received
responses from all 134 organizations to which we sent an RFI. We also
reviewed supplementary information provided by the RFI respondents,
interviewed DOD officials, and conducted internet searches of DOD
cyberspace organizations. In reviewing the supplementary information,
we either included organizations (as is) in the scope of our review,
consolidated them within another organization in our review, or removed
them from the scope of our review.
Further, in reviewing this information, we identified 360 additional
organizations. For these additional organizations, we did not transmit an
RFI to them. Instead, we contacted them directly or organizations that
had command and control over them and received data on the number of
7H.R. Rep. No. 118-301, at 1291-1292 (2023) (Conf. Rep.).
Page 3 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 10

personnel. In all, we collected data from 494 organizations. We tabulated
these data into spreadsheets and tables and presented the data to the
relevant DOD officials several times. In each instance we asked the DOD
officials to review the data for accuracy and completeness or provide
updated data.
To address the second objective, we leveraged the RFI to also request
data on the number of organizations and uniformed and DOD civilian
personnel who provide budgetary, personnel, policy, or training support
for cyberspace operations. While organizations that conduct cyberspace
operations are supported across other areas (to include intelligence and
planning support), we focused on the officials who provide budgetary,
personnel, policy, and training support because those were the areas
identified in the congressional provision requesting our assessment.
Additionally, the RFI also asked for a list of cyberspace training courses
provided by the responding organization. We consolidated and analyzed
this information and reviewed any related syllabi to determine courses
that were potentially providing the same training. We also interviewed
agency officials to obtain their perspectives on any potential overlap in
providing support to cyberspace operations and the causes and effects of
such overlap.
All DOD components, except for the Army, agreed that the information in
the report should be considered current as of December 31, 2024. Army
officials told us that the data were current as of January 3, 2025.
Additional details on our objectives, scope, and methodology can be
found in appendix I.
We conducted this performance audit from October 2023 to September
2025 in accordance with generally accepted government auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for
our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe
that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our findings
and conclusions based on our audit objectives.
Background
Types of Cyberspace All DOD actions in cyberspace that are not simply cyberspace-enabled
Operations activities (e.g., sending an email or using the internet to take training) are
taken as part of one of three cyberspace missions: (1) offensive
cyberspace operations, (2) defensive cyberspace operations, or (3)
DODIN operations. Like DOD missions in other domains (i.e., air, land,
Page 4 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 11

maritime, or space), completion of cyberspace operations missions
requires the execution of specific actions. For cyberspace missions,
objectives are achieved by the completion of one or more of five
cyberspace actions, which are defined exclusively by the types of effects
they create: attack, exploitation, defense, security, and system operation
(see fig. 1).
Figure 1: Cyberspace Operations Missions and Actions
Offensive cyberspace operations. Offensive cyberspace operations are
missions intended to project power in and through cyberspace.
Cyberspace attacks and cyber exploitation are the fundamental
cyberspace actions of offensive cyberspace operations. These actions
can include activities such as gaining unauthorized access to adversary
networks, systems, and nodes of military value. Some offensive
cyberspace missions may include attack actions including those that rise
to the level of use of force with physical damage or destruction of enemy
systems.
Defensive cyberspace operations. Defensive cyberspace operations
are conducted in response to imminent or active threats and are intended
to preserve the ability to use and protect cyberspace capabilities and
data. Defensive cyberspace operations are used to defeat threats that
have bypassed, breached, or are threatening to breach DODIN security
measures. Examples of defensive cyberspace operations include internal
defensive measures such as closing router ports an adversary is using for
unauthorized access or blocking malware that is beaconing out of the
Page 5 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 12

DODIN.8 Additionally, defensive cyberspace operations also include
response actions such as employing external countermeasures in
multiple areas of responsibility to counter a large botnet (a network of
computers linked together by malware).
DODIN operations. DODIN operations are operations to secure,
configure, operate, extend, maintain, and sustain DOD cyberspace to
create and preserve the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the
DODIN. DODIN operations are threat agnostic in that their security
measures are not focused on a specific threat. Instead, DODIN
operations seek to mitigate known vulnerabilities from a broad range of
threats. Further, DODIN operations seek to secure DOD cyberspace from
all threats in advance of any threat activity. Examples of DODIN
operations include actions taken to create and preserve the
confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the DODIN, such as
expeditionary forces setting up tactical networks to extend existing
networks and network maintenance actions.9
Assistant Secretary of In March 2024, DOD established the Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Defense for Cyber Policy Cyber Policy to serve as the senior official responsible for overall
supervision of DOD cyberspace policy and strategy. The official
and DOD Principal Cyber
establishes and oversees the implementation of DOD’s cyberspace policy
Advisor
and strategy including those related to cyberspace forces, capabilities,
and their employment. In addition, according to officials from the Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Cyber Policy, the office reviews and evaluates
cyber-related programs, plans, and system requirements.
The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Cyber Policy serves concurrently
as the DOD Principal Cyber Advisor and oversees the DOD Principal
Cyber Advisor office. The DOD Principal Cyber Advisor, in turn, is the
primary advisor to the Secretary of Defense on military cyber forces and
activities. The DOD Principal Cyber Advisor does not have operational
responsibilities for DOD operations and is not in the operational chain of
8A beacon is a type of malware that systematically calls out to a specified internet protocol
address or universe resource locator from a victimized system. A waiting threat agent can
answer this beacon, establishing a connection that provides partial or even full remote
access to the victimized system.
9According to Joint Pub. 3-12, “DODIN operations do not include actions taken under
statutory authority of a chief information officer to provision cyberspace for operations,
including information technology architecture development; establishing standards; or
designing, building, or otherwise operationalizing DODIN information technology.”
Therefore, we did not include organizations and personnel that fall within this scope.
Page 6 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 13

command. The Principal Cyber Advisor’s authority is limited to such
things as the recruitment, training, assessment, and maintenance of
cyberspace operations forces; and evaluating, improving, and enforcing a
culture of cyberspace warfighting and accountability for cybersecurity and
cyberspace operations. Further, the DOD Principal Cyber Advisor
supports the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and
Sustainment, in the acquisition oversight, delivery, and sustainment of
offensive, defensive, and DODIN cyber capabilities.
According to data provided by DOD components, DOD has established
About 440 DOD
434 organizations10 (consisting of 60,763 personnel11 and 9,501
Organizations
contractors) that conduct cyberspace operations.12 These organizations
Conduct Cyberspace are either aligned within the U.S Cyber Command (CYBERCOM)
command structure, retained by the military services, or not aligned with
Operations
either CYBERCOM or a military service (as shown in figure 2).
10For purposes of this report, we used battalion- and squadron-level units as the smallest
unit of measurement. The number of personnel assigned to smaller organizations—such
as Cyber Mission Force (CMF) teams—is included in their respective battalion- and
squadron-level units.
11The number of personnel currently conducting cyberspace operations represents
military and civilian positions that were filled as of December 2024. We did not include
authorized positions that had not been filled in our totals for personnel conducting
cyberspace operations.
12In addition to units that are established (in part or whole) for conducting cyberspace
operations, there are DOD personnel and contractor personnel who conduct cyberspace
operations but are assigned to DOD organizations whose primary purpose is not
cyberspace operations. For example, Marines within a Marine Corps infantry platoon or
sailors on Navy ships conduct cyberspace operations (e.g., DODIN operations). Based on
data components provided to us, we were able to identify at least 3,000 authorized billets
that conduct cyberspace operations but are not assigned to units that conduct cyberspace
operations. We did not include these individuals within the scope of this report as DOD did
not have a way to identify these individuals consistently and reliably. However, DOD
hopes to improve its situational awareness of these individuals as it improves its DOD
cyber workforce efforts.
Page 7 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 14

Figure 2: Summary of DOD Organizations Conducting Cyberspace Operations
Notes: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
In addition to units that are established (in part or whole) for conducting cyberspace operations, there
are DOD personnel and contractors who conduct cyberspace operations but are assigned to DOD
organizations whose primary purpose is not to conduct cyberspace operations. For example, the
Army may have personnel assigned within an Army special operations unit who conduct cyberspace
operations (e.g., DODIN operations). We did not include these individuals within the scope of this
report because DOD did not have a way to identify these individuals consistently and reliably.
Our totals for personnel conducting cyberspace operations only includes filled positions. We used
unfilled positions to determine how many authorized positions are vacant. Accordingly, the vacancy
rate reflects the percentage of authorized billets that do not have a military service member or civilian
employee filling that billet. For the purposes of the figure above, a -171 percent vacancy rate means
that an organization conducting cyberspace operations reported having more than twice as many
personnel than authorized (i.e., the organization reported having only 34 authorized billets but, at the
same time, reported having 92 filled cyberspace operations billets). Conversely, a 68 percent vacancy
rate means that an organization conducting cyberspace operations reported having filled only one-
third of the personnel authorized (i.e., the organization reported having 27 authorized cyberspace
operations billets, but only nine of those billets were filled).
CYBERCOM-Aligned To enable CYBERCOM to direct, synchronize, and
Organizations That coordinate cyberspace planning and operations, DOD has established 81
organizations (consisting of 14,542 personnel and 6,285 contractors) at
Conduct Cyberspace
the strategic, operational, and tactical levels that are aligned with
Operations
CYBERCOM. These organizations conduct a mixture of offensive
cyberspace operations, defensive cyberspace operations, and DODIN
operations (as shown in figure 3).
Page 8 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 15

Figure 3: Summary of U.S. Cyber Command (CYBERCOM) Aligned Organizations Conducting Cyberspace Operations
Notes: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
Our totals for personnel conducting cyberspace operations only includes filled positions. We used
unfilled positions to determine how many authorized positions are vacant. Accordingly, the vacancy
rate reflects the percentage of authorized billets that do not have a military service member or civilian
employee filling that billet. For the purposes of the figure above, a -67 percent vacancy rate means
that an organization conducting cyberspace operations reported having 67 percent more personnel
than authorized (i.e., the organization reported having only 86 authorized billets but, at the same time,
reported having 144 filled cyberspace operations billets). Conversely, a 59 percent vacancy rate
means that an organization conducting cyberspace operations reported having filled less than half of
the personnel authorized (i.e., the organization reported having 113 authorized cyberspace
operations billets, but only 46 of those billets were filled).
At the strategic level, CYBERCOM defends the DODIN, supports joint
force commanders with cyberspace operations, and defends the nation
from significant cyberspace attacks. At the operational level, there are six
headquarters organizations within CYBERCOM. These organizations
include:
• Cyber National Mission Force Headquarters;
• DOD Cyber Defense Command (formerly named Joint Force
Headquarters DODIN); and
• four Joint Force Headquarters-Cyber. The Joint Force Headquarters
commanders also concurrently serve as the commander of their
respective service cyber components.13
DOD Cyber Defense Command each of the four Joint Force
Headquarters-Cyber commands have one or more Cyberspace
Operations Integrated Planning Elements. These planning elements are
staffed by the service cyber components, assigned to and co-located
within different combatant commands (e.g. U.S. European Command),
13For example, the commander of Fleet Cyber Command is also the commander of Joint
Force Headquarters-Cyber (Navy), Navy Space Command, 10th Fleet, and the Navy
Service Cryptologic Component. Similarly, the commander of Air Forces Cyber is also the
commander of Joint Force Headquarters-Cyber (Air Force) and 16th Air Force.
Page 9 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 16

and are forward extensions of DOD Cyber Defense Command or their
respective Joint Force Headquarters-Cyber.
At the tactical level, DOD established the Cyber Mission Force (CMF) to
conduct CYBERCOM’s key cyberspace operations missions. In April
2022, the commander of CYBERCOM stated that DOD had 133 CMF
teams and planned to add 14 additional teams in the next few years.
While the CMF is organized into teams for purposes of conducting
operations, they are organized within service-specific organizations for
administrative purposes.14
• Army CMF teams are organized within Cyber Battalions, Cyber
Protection Battalions, Cyber Protection Centers, or Military
Intelligence Battalions (Cyber). These battalions report to either a
Cyber Protection Brigade or a Military Intelligence Brigade (Cyber).
• Marine Corps CMF teams report directly to either a Cyberspace
Operations Battalion or the Marine Corps Cyberspace Warfare Group.
• Navy CMF teams are organized within organizations known as a
Cyber Strike Activity, a Cyber Defense Activity, or Naval Information
Operations Commands.
• Air Force CMF teams are organized within Cyberspace Operations
Squadrons. These squadrons fall under Cyberspace Operations
Groups and Cyberspace Wings.
• Space Force does not contribute personnel to CMF teams (as of
January 2025).
For additional details about CYBERCOM-aligned organizations, see
appendix II.
Military Service-Retained The military services retain hundreds of organizations to conduct
Organizations That offensive cyberspace operations, defensive cyberspace operations, and
DODIN operations. According to data the DOD components provided, the
Conduct Cyberspace
services retain 330 organizations (consisting of 45,442 personnel and
Operations
1,189 contractors) that conduct cyberspace operations. These
organizations conduct a mixture of offensive cyberspace operations,
defensive cyberspace operations, and DODIN operations (as shown in
figure 4).
14In this report, we did not count CMF teams as organizations since they are smaller than
battalion- or squadron-level units. Instead, we counted the number of personnel within the
CMF teams within their respective service’s organization structure.
Page 10 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 17

Figure 4: Summary of Service-Retained Organizations Conducting Cyberspace Operations
Notes: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
In addition to units that are established (in part or whole) for conducting cyberspace operations, there
are DOD personnel and contractors who conduct cyberspace operations but are assigned to DOD
organizations whose primary purpose is not to conduct cyberspace operations. For example, the
Army may have personnel assigned within an Army special operations unit who conduct cyberspace
operations (e.g., DODIN operations). We did not include these individuals within the scope of this
report because DOD did not have a way to identify these individuals consistently and reliably.
Our totals for personnel conducting cyberspace operations only includes filled positions. We used
unfilled positions to determine how many authorized positions are vacant. Accordingly, the vacancy
rate reflects the percentage of authorized billets that do not have a military service member or civilian
employee filling that billet. For the purposes of the figure above, a -171 percent vacancy rate means
that an organization conducting cyberspace operations reported having more than twice as many
personnel than authorized (i.e., the organization reported having only 34 authorized billets but, at the
same time, reported having 92 filled cyberspace operations billets). Conversely, a 67 percent vacancy
rate means that an organization conducting cyberspace operations reported having filled only one-
third of the personnel authorized (i.e., the organization reported having 27 authorized cyberspace
operations billets but only nine of those billets were filled).
Table 1 depicts the number of military service-retained organizations
conducting cyberspace operations and the associated service personnel
and contractor personnel within those organizations.
Table 1: Number of Service-Retained Organizations Conducting Cyberspace
Operations (Including Personnel and Contractors)
Number of Number of Number of
organizationsa personnel contractors
Army 43 10,841 466
Marines 14 6,561 17
Navy 13 4,325 237
Air Force 238 22,363b 337
Space Force 18 1,113 62
Coast Guard 4 239 70
Source: GAO analysis of Department of Defense (DOD) cyberspace operations information. | GAO-25-107121
Note: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
Page 11 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 18

aOrganizations include service commands, units conducting cyberspace operations, and the
cybersecurity service providers within the services. For purposes of this report, we used battalion and
squadron level units as the lowest level of unit we measured. Tactical level units, such as Cyber
Mission Force teams, have their data reflected within battalion and squadron level organizations.
bOf the 22,363 Air Force-retained personnel in units conducting cyberspace operations, 20,046
individuals (90 percent) are assigned to a group of units that Air Force officials identified as being
“communications squadrons” conducting DOD Information Network (DODIN) operations. Other
services also have a significant number of personnel conducting DODIN operations but were not
included in these totals as they are not assigned to units that were established to conduct cyberspace
operations. For example, according to Navy data, there are 3,038 authorized billets tasked with
conducting DODIN operations aboard Navy ships that are not assigned to units that are tasked with
conducting cyberspace operations.
Examples of military service-retained units include:
• Army cyber warfare, multidomain, information operations, and signal
battalions;
• Navy computer and telecommunications stations;
• Marine Corps radio and communications battalions;
• Air Force communications, engineering, cyberspace operations, and
network operations squadrons; and
• Space Force cyberspace operations squadrons.
The military services also retain nine of the 23 DOD cybersecurity service
providers (CSSP) that conduct cybersecurity operations. CSSPs are
organizations that direct and manage network operations and provide one
or more cybersecurity activities to the DODIN. The service-retained
CSSPs fall into two types:
• CSSPs that conduct operations within their own services.
• CSSPs that provide services externally for other DOD components.
CSSPs generally operate under the authority and leadership of their
respective commands and report information to the DOD Cyber Defense
Command.
See appendixes III-VII for additional details about military service-retained
cyberspace operations organizations.
Other DOD Organizations In addition to establishing organizations that are aligned to CYBERCOM
That Conduct Cyberspace or that the services have retained, DOD has also established other
organizations (and assigned people and hired contractor personnel) to
Operations
conduct cyberspace operations. Generally, these organizations fall into
one of three categories:
Page 12 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 19

• CSSPs not located within one of the military services. According
to data the DOD components provided, 14 of the 23 CSSPs
(consisting of 562 personnel and 1,919 contractors) conduct
cyberspace operations outside of the military services. These CSSPs
include those that belong to the Defense Information Systems
Agency, Defense Logistics Agency, and Missile Defense Agency.15
See appendix VIII for additional details about CSSPs.
• Combatant commands. Combatant commands are responsible for
securing, operating, and defending their designated DODIN area of
operation (i.e., networks and systems that they authorize). The
combatant commands also integrate cyberspace operations into
plans. The combatant commands have organized their cyberspace
operations personnel into Joint Cyberspace Centers for unity of effort
in planning, coordinating, integrating, and synchronizing efforts or
have designated specific individuals in different directorates
throughout the command with these responsibilities. Based on data
provided to us, nine of the 11 combatant commands have 209
personnel and 78 contractors that conduct cyberspace operations.16
• Special operations commands and units. U.S. Special Operations
Command has a directorate within the command headquarters, at
least two separate organizations that conduct cyberspace operations
(including a CSSP), and personnel embedded in other organizations
across the globe. Additional information about these organizations
and personnel (including numbers) are classified and not included in
this report.
15The number of personnel and contractors associated with two of the 14 CSSPs are
classified and are not included in the totals reflected in this report.
16In addition to having Joint Cyber Centers or personnel to support combatant commander
responsibilities, combatant commands also have Cyberspace Operations Integrated
Planning Elements that are organizationally aligned to DOD Cyber Defense Command or
one of four Joint Force Headquarters-Cyber. Since they are CYBERCOM personnel, we
included them in our totals for CYBERCOM-aligned organizations.
Page 13 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 20

Some DOD
Organizations
Provide Similar
Support to
Cyberspace
Operations
Seventy Organizations Each of the organizations conducting cyberspace operations is supported
Support Cyberspace by its respective parent organization that provides budgetary, personnel,
policy, and training support to cyberspace operations.
Operations
According to data DOD components provided, 70 organizations
composed of 3,390 personnel provide budgetary, personnel, policy, and
training.17 Figure 5 shows the breakdown of DOD personnel supporting
cyberspace operations in these four categories.
Figure 5: Number of DOD Military and Civilian Personnel Providing Budgetary,
Personnel, Policy, Training Support
Note: Support personnel can work in more than one support area. To avoid overcounting, we asked
organizations to report their primary work area.
Generally, we found that this support was provided by organizations
within the
• Office of the Secretary of Defense and key offices. These include
the offices of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Cyber Policy, the
17Some organizations reported both conducting and supporting cyberspace operations.
Page 14 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 21

Assistant Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, the
DOD Chief Information Officer, and the Office of the DOD Principal
Cyber Advisor.
• Joint Staff and combatant commands. These include organizations
from U.S. Africa Command, U.S. Northern Command, and U.S. Space
Command.
• Military department and service headquarter organizations and
personnel for the military departments (Army, Navy, and Air
Force). For example, at the military department-level, the offices of
the Principal Cyber Advisors and offices of the Navy and Air Force
Chief Information Officer provide policy support. At the service-level,
examples include the Office of the United States Marine Corps Deputy
Commandant for Information and the Office of the Space Force Chief
Operating Officer.
• Military service headquarters and commands. In several
instances, an organization that conducts cyberspace operations
reports to or receives support from a higher-headquarters command
that is not organized to conduct cyberspace operations. For example,
the Air Combat Command Headquarters staff provides support to the
16th Air Force. Also, as discussed further below, four of the five
military services have training commands (and subordinate training
units) that train organizations to conduct cyberspace operations.
• DOD components with CSSPs: Multiple DOD components and
agencies provide a mix of budget, personnel, policy, and training
support to their respective CSSPs. For example, the Defense Finance
and Accounting Service, Defense Intelligence Agency, and Defense
Threat Reduction Agency provide support to their CSSP.
While some organizations, such as the service training commands,
provide a single type of support (e.g., training), the services identified
other organizations that provide support in multiple capacities. For
example, the Marine Corps’ office of the Deputy Commandant for
Information provides budgetary, personnel, and policy support to Marine
Corps organizations that conduct cyberspace operations.
Areas of Overlap May Based on information that DOD components provided us, we found three
Exist Between areas where there may be potential overlap in the activities of
organizations supporting and conducting cyberspace operations. Our
Organizations Supporting
prior work has found that overlap occurs when multiple agencies or
and Conducting
Cyberspace Operations
Page 15 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 22

programs have similar goals, engage in similar activities or strategies to
achieve them, or target similar beneficiaries.18
Potential overlap in military services’ support. First, we identified multiple
organizations within each military service that are providing similar
budgetary, personnel, policy, and training support to their respective
organizations conducting cyberspace operations, as shown in table 2.
Table 2: Organizations in Each Military Service Providing Budgetary, Personnel, Policy, and Training Support
Military
service Organizations Budgetary Personnel Policy Training
Army Cyber Center of Excellence Headquarters ● ● ● ●
Cyber School ●
Human Resources Command ● ●
Intelligence and Security Command Headquarters ● ● ●
Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff, G-3/5/7 ● ● ● ●
Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff, G-6 ● ● ● ●
Office of the Principal Cyber Advisor ● ●
Chief Information Officer ● ●
Signal School ● ●
Cyber, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Center ● ●
Cryptologic Office ●
Marine Office of the Deputy Commandant for Information ● ● ●
Corps
Training and Education Command ●
U.S. Marine Corps Forces, Pacific ● ● ● ●
I Marine Expeditionary Force Headquarters ● ● ● ●
II Marine Expeditionary Force Headquarters ● ● ● ●
III Marine Expeditionary Force Headquarters ● ● ● ●
Marine Forces Reserve Headquarters Group ● ●
Navy Fleet Forces Command Headquarters ●
Naval Information Forces Headquarters ● ●
Office of the Chief Information Officer ● ●
Office of the Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Information Warfare ● ● ● ●
Office of the Principal Cyber Advisor ● ●
Center for Information Warfare Training ●
Naval Information Warfighting Development Center ● ● ●
18GAO, Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication: An Evaluation and Management Guide,
GAO-15-49SP (Washington, D.C.: Apr. 14, 2015)
Page 16 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 23

Military
service Organizations Budgetary Personnel Policy Training
Naval Information Warfare Training Group ●
Naval Information Warfare Training Group Norfolk ●
Naval Information Warfare Training Group San Diego ●
Air Air Education and Training Command ●
Force
Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance, and ● ● ● ●
Cyber Effects Operations, A2/6
Office of the Principal Cyber Advisor ●
Air Force Chief Information Officer ● ●
Air Combat Command Staff ● ● ● ●
17th Training Wing ●
333rd Training Squadron ●
336th Training Squadron ●
338th Training Squadron ●
Defense Cyber Crime Center ●
Air Force Cryptologic Office ● ● ●
39th Information Operations Squadron ●
318th Range Squadron ●
275th Operations Support Squadron ●
Reserve Headquarters ● ●
32nd Weapons Squadron ●
805th Combat Test Squadron ●
Space Chief Technology and Innovation Officer ● ●
Force
Chief Operating Officer ● ●
Space Operations Command ●
Space Training and Readiness Command ●
Source: GAO analysis of Department of Defense data. | GAO-25-107121
Notes: The Air Force Air Education and Training Command Headquarters did not report any
personnel providing training support for cyberspace operations; however, several of its subordinate
units (33rd Training Squadron, 336th Training Squadron, and 338th Training Squadron) did.
Support personnel can work in more than one support area, so to avoid overcounting, we asked
organizations to report their primary work area.
According to officials from the offices of Army, Navy, and Air Force
principal cyber advisors, having organizations with similar support
responsibilities across the military services was intentional and instituted
Page 17 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 24

to meet each service’s unique requirements.19 For example, title 10 of the
United States Code requires that each military service organize, train, and
equip the forces assigned to it. As a result, according to the service
officials, the services necessarily have their own offices and personnel to
perform many key budgetary, personnel, policy, and training functions, as
required. Additionally, we have recently reported, in some cases it may be
appropriate or beneficial for multiple agencies or entities to be involved in
the same programmatic or policy area due to the complex nature or
magnitude of the federal effort.20
Furthermore, according to the information that was provided to us, for
some organizations a significant portion of personnel providing support
for cyberspace operations also provide support for activities separate
from cyberspace operations. For example, officials from Space Force’s
Space Operations Command reported that 100 percent of the personnel
who provide policy support for cyberspace operations also support other
organizational activities. Similarly, officials from the Air Force’s
Cryptologic Office reported that 100 percent of the personnel who provide
budget, policy, and training support for cyberspace operations also
support other organizational activities. Further, officials from the Joint
Staff reported that 64 percent of the personnel who provide budget,
personnel, policy, and training support for cyberspace operations also
support other organizational activities.
Potential overlap in military service training courses. Second, there is
potential overlap in the training courses the military service training
commands provide to organizations conducting cyberspace operations.
For example, we identified that each military service provided a cyber
defense analyst course.
According to the Office of the DOD Principal Cyber Advisor, cyberspace
operations training in DOD is decentralized, and each military service is
responsible for ensuring its forces meet the training requirements and
standards that CYBERCOM sets. In addition, any training the military
services offer must also be aligned with that respective service’s strategic
objectives. As a result, according to officials, there is an incentive for the
19Since each military department has a principal cyber advisor, the Marine Corps and
Space Force leverage the Navy’s advisor and Air Force’s advisor, according to the Navy
and Air Force’s principal cyber advisor offices.
20GAO, Older Americans: HHS Should Apply Leading Practices as It Coordinates
Overlapping Programs, GAO 25-107020 (Washington, D.C.: Jan. 8, 2025).
Page 18 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 25

military services to develop their own cyberspace operations training
programs, which creates the potential for the services to provide the
same or similar foundational courses. Similarly, in responding to the draft
report, the Air Force stated that potential overlap in training courses may
exist since CYBERCOM joint training standards do not fully meet military
service requirements for service-retained cyberspace forces.
In 2015, the Senate Armed Services Committee urged DOD to create a
federated and joint training model and discouraged each service from
building separate training capabilities for its respective cyber contingent.21
As we reported in 2019, to comply with congressional direction, DOD
initially moved to a joint training model, which had the principal goal to
produce efficiencies and reduce training development and delivery costs.
Under this model, the Army was designated as the “joint curriculum lead”
for both the cyber defense analyst course and cyber operations planner
course.22 However, since that time, the services have developed
potentially duplicative courses, in part, because no one within the Office
of the Secretary of Defense was assessing whether the services were
creating a federated and joint training model.
In 2024, DOD established the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Cyber
Policy.23 The office of the DOD Principal Cyber Advisor (within the
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Cyber Policy) stated that it recognized
the importance of eliminating overlap in training, but that because of the
reorganization of the office, they were still developing the office’s
priorities. The officials added that the potential consolidation of
cyberspace operations training will likely be one of the Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Cyber Policy office’s priorities once the
reorganization is finished. Overlap in training programs could lead to DOD
paying for the same thing twice or more. Additionally, the existence of
multiple, similar cyberspace operations courses among the services may
21S. Rep. No. 114-49, at 287 (2015).
22GAO, DOD Training: U.S. Cyber Command and Services Should Take Actions to
Maintain a Trained Cyber Mission Force, GAO-19-362 (Washington, D.C.: Mar. 6, 2019).
23As noted in the Background section of this report, DOD established the Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Cyber Policy to serve as the senior official responsible for overall
supervision of DOD cyberspace policy and strategy. The official has operational
responsibilities for overseeing DOD’s cyberspace policy and strategy; DOD’s cyberspace
operations budget; and the integration of cyberspace operations and capabilities into
operations and contingency plans. The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Cyber Policy
serves concurrently as the DOD Principal Cyber Advisor.
Page 19 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 26

indicate that DOD is not fully meeting the intent of the Senate Armed
Services Committee to be efficient and reduce costs.
Potential overlap among CSSPs. Third, since there are 23 DOD CSSPs
(nine aligned with the military services and 14 existing in other DOD
components) conducting cyberspace operations across the department
(most of which conduct DODIN operations), there may be potential areas
of overlap between them and opportunities for cost savings by
consolidating some functions and activities. For example, according to
data DOD provided us, there are over 2,500 contractors potentially
providing the same service to CSSPs and 128 personnel providing the
same budget, personnel, policy, and training support to the CSSPs.
Because these personnel are largely conducting the same activities and
functions (i.e., providing cybersecurity services and activities to DOD
organizations), there may be some opportunities for consolidation.
It is DOD policy for DOD components to continuously review manpower
utilization plans and programs to ensure efficient and effective use of
personnel.24 However, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Cyber
Policy has not assessed whether consolidation of CSSPs is feasible. The
Office of the DOD Principal Cyber Advisor (within the Office of the
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Cyber Policy) stated that because of
the recent reorganization of the office, it was still developing the office’s
priorities. The DOD Principal Cyber Advisor office agreed that there may
be opportunities for consolidation of DOD’s CSSPs, and that the Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Cyber Policy office may look at the issue once
the reorganization is completed. Until DOD does so, however, it may be
missing opportunities to achieve cost savings and efficiencies.
Given sophisticated cyber threats from both state and nonstate actors,
Conclusions
DOD has established a substantial number of organizations to conduct
cyberspace operations—to include those aligned with CYBERCOM,
retained by the services, or aligned with other DOD components (e.g.,
combatant commands). These organizations are enabled by their
respective parent organization for budgetary, personnel, policy and
training support; however, we found areas where there may be overlap in
the activities of organizations supporting and conducting cyberspace
operations. By identifying and addressing potential areas of overlap, the
24DOD Directive 1100.4, Guidance for Manpower Management, (Feb. 12, 2005).
Page 20 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 27

department may achieve cost savings and reduce inefficiencies in how it
supports and conducts cyberspace operations.
We are making the following two recommendations to DOD:
Recommendations for
Executive Action
The Secretary of Defense should ensure that the Assistant Secretary of
Defense for Cyber Policy assesses the extent to which similar cyberspace
training courses provided by the services overlap and can be
consolidated to ensure that the military services are implementing a
federated and joint training model in a manner that achieves efficiencies
and reduces training development and delivery costs. (Recommendation
1)
The Secretary of Defense should ensure that the Assistant Secretary of
Defense for Cyber Policy assesses the extent to which there are
opportunities to achieve cost savings and efficiencies by consolidating
DOD cybersecurity service providers. (Recommendation 2)
We provided a draft of this report for review and comment to the
Agency Comments
Department of Defense. The Department of Defense concurred with both
and Our Response
of our recommendations and provided actions they will take to implement
them. We believe these actions, if implemented, will meet the intent of our
recommendations. The Department of Defense’s written comments are
reproduced in full in appendix IX. The Department of Defense, military
departments, and U.S. Cyber Command also provided technical
comments, which we incorporated as appropriate.
We are providing copies of this report to the appropriate congressional
committees, the Secretary of Defense, and each of the major military
components identified in this review to include the military services, Cyber
Command, and select defense agencies. In addition, the report is
available at no charge on the GAO website at https://www.gao.gov.
If you or your staff have any questions about this report, please contact
me at kirschbaumj@gao.gov. Contact points for our Offices of
Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page
Page 21 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 28

of this report. GAO staff who made key contributions to the report are
listed in appendix X.
Joseph W. Kirschbaum
Director, Defense Capabilities and Management
Page 22 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 29

List of Committees
The Honorable Roger F. Wicker
Chairman
The Honorable Jack Reed
Ranking Member
Committee on Armed Services
United States Senate
The Honorable Mitch McConnell
Chair
The Honorable Christopher Coons
Ranking Member
Subcommittee on Defense
Committee on Appropriations
United States Senate
The Honorable Mike Rogers
Chairman
The Honorable Adam Smith
Ranking Member
Committee on Armed Services
House of Representatives
The Honorable Ken Calvert
Chairman
The Honorable Betty McCollum
Ranking Member
Subcommittee on Defense
Committee on Appropriations
House of Representatives
Page 23 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 30

Appendix I: Obj ectives, Scope, and
Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and
Methodology
Methodology
The Conference Report accompanying the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 included a provision for us to
review the Department of Defense’s (DOD) management of cyberspace
operations.1 This report (1) identifies the type and number of
organizations and personnel that conduct DOD cyberspace operations;
and (2) evaluates the extent to which there is overlap between
organizations that provide budgetary, personnel, policy, or training
support for cyberspace operations.
To address objective one, we initially asked officials from the Office of the
DOD Principal Cyber Advisor, the service component Principal Cyber
Advisors, U.S. Cyber Command, DOD Cyber Defense Command, and the
service cyber components whether they had a comprehensive list of
organizations, personnel, or both that conduct or support cyberspace
operations. DOD officials told us that they do not have a system that
collects or maintains such information.
Since they did not have such information, we discussed different
approaches to identify organizations and personnel that conduct
cyberspace operations. After discussing the merits and challenges of
those different options, we decided to focus on organizations that were
organized to conduct cyberspace operations. Through this approach,
regardless of role, all personnel (military, civilian, and contractor) who
were assigned to the organization would be counted.
Leveraging information from Joint Publication 3-12, Joint Cyberspace
Operations;2 the 2019 Secretary of Defense Memorandum “Definition of
Department of Defense Cyberspace Operations Forces (DoD COF);”3
and discussions with DOD officials, we initially identified 134 cyberspace
operations organizations that we planned to include in our review.
We then worked with the DOD officials to develop a request for
information (RFI) that we would use to collect information about these 134
organizations. In developing the RFI questions, we consulted with the
DOD officials to determine the terminology and characterization that
1H.R. Rep. No. 118-301, at 1291-1293 (2024) (Conf. Rep.).
2Joint Chiefs of Staff, Joint Pub. 3-12, Joint Cyberspace Operations (Dec. 19, 2022).
3In July 2025, the Secretary of Defense issued an updated memorandum which revised
and superseded the 2019 definition of DOD Cyberspace Operations Forces. See
Secretary of Defense Memorandum, Department of Defense Cyberspace Operations
Forces (July 24, 2025).
Page 24 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix I: Obj ectives, Scope, and
Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and
Methodology |
| Methodology |

## Page 31

Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and
Methodology
would be most understandable to individuals completing the RFI while
also meeting the intent of our assessment. A GAO survey specialist also
assisted in developing the RFI questions. The RFI included questions
regarding the number of personnel and organizations that conduct or
support cyberspace operations. Additionally, the RFI included questions
regarding command-and-control relationships and whether an
organization conducts offensive, defensive, or DOD Information Network
(DODIN) operations among other questions.
Regarding personnel conducting and supporting cyberspace operations,
the RFI requested billet-level data. According to DOD officials, although
DOD is in the process of coding its cyberspace workforce as part of the
DOD Cyber Workforce Framework, this process remains incomplete, and
the cyber work role codes are not uniformly implemented across the
department. As a result, we requested other characteristics for each billet
reported in the request for information, such as: work roles, ranks, and
the number of authorized and filled billets. We transmitted the RFI to
points of contact for the 134 organizations.
After the distribution of the RFI, we followed up directly with the
respondents identified in the RFI to clarify the RFI questions and data
requests, as needed, and answer respondent questions. For example, we
coordinated with respondents to avoid double counting personnel
between organizations conducting cyberspace operations and
organizations supporting cyberspace operations. Additionally, in the RFI
we asked organizations supporting cyberspace operations to only include
personnel in one of the four areas (budgetary, personnel, policy, and
training) to avoid double counting personnel whose roles may fit into more
than one category. As such, we also followed up with respondents to
clarify potential instances where it appeared to us that personnel were
counted more than once.
Additionally, to consistently describe organizations conducting and
supporting cyberspace operations, we followed up with respondents to
ensure they provided information on organizations at the battalion and
squadron level and above. We used battalion and squadron level units as
the lowest level of unit we measured. Tactical level units, such as Cyber
Mission Force teams, were directed to provide data within battalion and
squadron level organizations. In instances where RFI respondents
included organizations below the battalion and squadron levels in their
responses, we coordinated with them to identify the relevant battalion and
squadron level organizations in their chain of their command. For
example, since the Cyber Mission Force teams are smaller than
Page 25 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 32

Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and
Methodology
battalions and squadrons, we included the Cyber Mission Force
personnel in the battalions, squadrons, or similar level organizations in
which they are organizationally aligned. As part of the RFI, respondents
were asked to provide supplementary information such as command
briefs.
Ultimately through this follow-up, we received information from each
organization that we initially identified. In reviewing the information, we
obtained about these organizations, we either included them (as is) in the
scope of our review, consolidated them within another organization in our
review, or removed them from the scope of our review. In addition, after
reviewing the supplementary information we requested, conducting
internet searches of DOD cyberspace operations organizations, and
conferring with DOD officials, we identified 360 additional organizations
that conducted or supported cyberspace operations.
For these additional organizations, we did not transmit an RFI to them.
Instead, we contacted them directly or organizations that had command
and control over them and received data on the number of personnel. In
all, we collected data from 494 organizations. In responding to our RFI, a
few DOD components identified personnel who conduct cyberspace
operations that were assigned to organizations that were not tasked to
conduct such operations (such as a special operator who conducts
cyberspace operations as a member of special operations team or a
Marine who is a member of a platoon that, as a unit, is not designed to
conduct cyberspace operations). Since DOD did not have way to
consistently and reliably identify such personnel, we agreed to
acknowledge such individuals exist but not include them in this report
given data reliability issues.
To address the second objective, we leveraged the RFI to also request
data on the number of organizations and uniformed and DOD civilian
personnel who provide budgetary, personnel, policy, or training support
for support cyberspace operations. While organizations that conduct
cyberspace operations are supported across other areas (to include
intelligence and planning support), we focused on the officials who
provide budgetary, personnel, policy, and training support because those
were the areas identified in the congressional provision requesting our
assessment.
The RFI requested that respondents identify information on personnel
providing support to cyberspace operations, such as the work roles,
ranks, extent to which individuals supported non-cyberspace operations,
Page 26 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 33

Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and
Methodology
and the number of authorized and filled billets. To avoid double counting
individuals who may provide support to more than one of the support
categories (budgetary, personnel, policy, and training), we asked
respondents to place individuals in the single category most applicable to
their role. The RFI did not include a request for contractor personnel
providing budgetary, personnel, policy, or training support to cyberspace
operations. We analyzed these data to determine the organizations within
each military service that are providing similar budgetary, personnel,
policy, and training support to their respective organizations conducting
cyberspace operations.
Additionally, the RFI also asked for a list of cyberspace training courses
provided by the responding organization. We consolidated and analyzed
this information and reviewed any related syllabi to determine courses
that were potentially providing the same training. For both potential areas
of overlap, we interviewed officials from the DOD Principal Cyber
Advisor’s office and military services’ principal cyber advisor offices to
obtain their perspectives.
We took several steps to assess the reliability of data provided by DOD
officials. For example, the RFI included questions that asked the
respondents to describe the internal processes their organization used to
pull the data for cyberspace operations and support personnel. We
reviewed the responses to these questions and followed up via email and
phone calls with respondents to obtain any clarification that was needed.
While some DOD components did not respond to those questions within
the RFI, we have assessed the associated risk and concluded that any
potential errors resulting from the lack of data reliability response from
single organizations are not substantial enough to cause a reasonable
person, aware of the errors, to doubt a finding, conclusion, or
recommendation supported by the data especially since we aggregated
the data by DOD, military services, and components.
After collecting all the information from the 494 organizations, we
manually inputted the data into Excel spreadsheets. Large data files were
automatically processed into the spreadsheets by a GAO data analyst
using Statistical Analysis Software. Once the data were consolidated into
tables, we analyzed the data to identify odd/incorrect/missing responses.
We then asked the relevant DOD officials about the questionable data
and provided them an opportunity to provide comments, identity
anomalies, or provide updated data. During these meetings we also
asked officials to verify the accuracy and completeness of their
organization’s data. Updated data provided by DOD were then manually
Page 27 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 34

Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and
Methodology
inputted into the spreadsheets. Any manually inputted data were verified
back to the source document by another GAO analyst. We then
conducted two exit conferences where we presented the consolidated
data to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, U.S. Cyber Command,
military service cyber components, Joint Staff, cybersecurity service
security providers, and combatant command officials and again asked
them to review the data for accuracy and completeness or provide any
updates.
All DOD components, except for the Army, agreed that the information in
the report should be considered current as of December 31, 2024. Army
officials told us that the data were current as of January 3, 2025. In June
2025 we transmitted the draft report to DOD. Based on comments
received, we modified number of organizations and personnel (to include
adding a new organization and removing some personnel from the count).
Given the steps taken above to ensure the accuracy and completeness of
the data, we believe that the data are sufficiently reliable for the purpose
of establishing an initial estimate and baseline for the number of
personnel and organizations conducting and supporting DOD’s
cyberspace operations.
We conducted this performance audit from October 2023 to September
2025 in accordance with generally accepted government auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for
our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe
that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our findings
and conclusions based on our audit objectives.
Page 28 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 35

Appendix II: U.S . Cyber Command
Appendix II: U.S. Cyber Command
(CYBERCOM) Cyberspace Operations
(CYBERCOM) Cyberspace Operations
CYBERCOM and its aligned organizations—which consist of 81
organizations, 14,542 personnel, and 6,285 contractors—conduct
Department of Defense (DOD) Information Network (DODIN) operations,
defensive operations, and offensive operations (or some combination
thereof), as shown in figure 6 below.
Figure 6: Number of U.S. Cyber Command (CYBERCOM) Organizations Conducting Cyberspace Operations
Notes: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
Our totals for personnel conducting cyberspace operations only includes
filled positions. We used unfilled positions to determine how many
authorized positions are vacant. Accordingly, the vacancy rate reflects the
percentage of authorized billets that do not have a military service
member or civilian employee filling that billet. For the purposes of the
figure above, a -67 percent vacancy rate means that an organization
conducting cyberspace operations reported having more personnel than
authorized (i.e., the organization reported having only 86 authorized
billets but, at the same time, reported having 144 filled cyberspace
operations billets). Conversely, a 59 percent vacancy rate means that an
organization conducting cyberspace operations reported having filled less
than half the personnel authorized (i.e., the organization reported having
113 authorized cyberspace operations billets, but only 46 of those billets
were filled).
Page 29 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix II: U.S . Cyber Command
Appendix II: U.S. Cyber Command
(CYBERCOM) Cyberspace Operations |
| (CYBERCOM) Cyberspace Operations |

#### Table 2

|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |

## Page 36

Appendix II: U.S. Cyber Command
(CYBERCOM) Cyberspace Operations
The 81 organizations include CYBERCOM headquarters, six subordinate
organizations, and service organizations that are aligned to the
command.
• CYBERCOM Headquarters directs, synchronizes, and coordinates
cyberspace planning and operations to defend and advance national
interests in collaboration with domestic and international partners.
• Cyber National Mission Force Headquarters focuses on defending
the nation and oversees units that conduct offensive and defensive
cyberspace operations.
• DOD Cyber Defense Command primarily focuses on DOD-wide
efforts to secure, operate, and defend the DODIN (i.e., information
network operations and defensive cyberspace operations).
• Four Joint Force Headquarters-Cyber primarily focus on supporting
the Joint Force and provide the combatant commands with direct
support, cyberspace operations expertise, and reachback capability to
CYBERCOM through Cyberspace Operations Integrated Planning
Elements aligned to each combatant command.
The military services have 78 organizations aligned to CYBERCOM, as
shown in table 3 below.
Table 3: Service Organizations Aligned with U.S. Cyber Command’s (CYBERCOM)
Cyberspace Operations
Number of Number of Number of Additional
organizations personnela contractors information
Army 20 5,056 3,129 Appendix III
Navy 6 2,416 105 Appendix IV
Marine Corps 7 2,017 1,521 Appendix V
Air Force 45 3,751 27 Appendix VI
Space Forcea 0 0 0 Appendix VII
Source: GAO analysis of Department of Defense (DOD) cyberspace operations information. | GAO-25-107121
Note: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
aAs of December 2024, the Space Force does not have any U.S. CYBERCOM-aligned organizations.
According to Department of the Air Force officials, the service plans to establish a service cyber
component in the middle of 2025.
CYBERCOM Authority CYBERCOM executes authority over aligned organizations through its
combatant command authority. Operational control for CYBERCOM
organizations generally flows through the commander of CYBERCOM to
Page 30 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 37

Appendix II: U.S. Cyber Command
(CYBERCOM) Cyberspace Operations
the six operational-level organizations (i.e., Cyber National Mission Force
Headquarters, DOD Cyber Defense Command, and the four Joint Force
Headquarters-Cyber commands), as shown in figure 7 below.
Administrative control generally flows down from the secretary of the
military service through one of its respective major commands.
Figure 7: U.S. Cyber Command Organizational Construct
Notes: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
Since the commanders of the Joint Force Headquarters commands also concurrently serve as the
commander of their respective service cyber components (and other service commands), the
personnel and contractors associated with these “multi-hatted” commands are included in these
numbers.
Cyber Mission Force At the tactical level, the CMF conducts key cyberspace operations
(CMF) missions. According to the commander of CYBERCOM, DOD had 133
CMF teams and plans to increase the number of teams by at least 14 in
the coming years.1
The CMF is generally organized into the following three elements:
• Cyber Protection Force conducts cyberspace operations for internal
defense of the DOD network. The Cyber Protection Force consists of
Cyber Protection Teams that are organized, trained, and equipped to
defend assigned cyberspace in coordination with and in support of
system operators, local defenders, cybersecurity service providers,
and users.
• Cyber National Mission Force conducts cyberspace operations to
defeat cyber threats to the DOD network and the nation. The force
comprises various numbered national mission teams, associated
1We did not count the 133 CMF teams as individual organizations within this report since
the teams are smaller than the unit of measurement we used (i.e., battalion- or squadron-
level).
Page 31 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 38

Appendix II: U.S. Cyber Command
(CYBERCOM) Cyberspace Operations
national support teams, and national Cyber Protection Teams focused
on defense of non-DOD network cyberspace.
• Cyber Combat Mission Force conducts cyberspace operations to
support the missions, plans, and priorities of the combatant
commanders. The force comprises various numbered combat mission
teams and associated combat support teams.
The total number of personnel assigned to these teams are identified in
table 4 below.
Table 4: Number of Personnel and Contractors in Cyber Mission Force Teams
Service Number of personnel Number of contractors
Army 1,555 0
Marine Corps 504 38
Navy 1,601 2
Air Force 1,453 47
Source: GAO analysis of Department of Defense (DOD) cyberspace operations information. | GAO-25-107121
Notes: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
The number of Cyber Mission Force personnel and contractors depicted in this table are also
included in the respective appendixes associated with each of the services (i.e., appendixes III-VII).
Page 32 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 39

Appendix III: Ar my Cyberspace Operations
Appendix III: Army Cyberspace Operations
According to information that Army organizations provided us, the service
has 63 organizations (consisting of 15,897 personnel and 3,595
contractors) that conduct cyberspace operations, as shown in figure 8.
Figure 8: Number of Army Organizations Conducting Cyberspace Operations
Notes: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
In addition to units that are established (in part or whole) for conducting cyberspace operations, there
are DOD personnel and contractors who conduct cyberspace operations but are assigned to DOD
organizations whose primary purpose is not to conduct cyberspace operations. We did not include
these individuals within the scope of this report because DOD did not have a way to identify these
individuals consistently and reliably.
Our totals for personnel conducting cyberspace operations only includes filled positions. We used
unfilled positions to determine how many authorized positions are vacant. Accordingly, the vacancy
rate reflects the percentage of authorized billets that do not have a military service member or civilian
employee filling that billet. For the purposes of the figure above, a -67 percent vacancy rate means
that an organization conducting cyberspace operations reported having more personnel than
authorized (i.e., the organization reported having only 86 authorized billets but, at the same time,
reported having 144 filled cyberspace operations billets). Conversely, a 54 percent vacancy rate
means that an organization conducting cyberspace operations reported having filled less than half the
personnel authorized (i.e., the organization reported having 523 authorized cyberspace operations
billets, but only 239 of those billets were filled).
Page 33 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


### Tables

#### Table 1

|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |

## Page 40

Appendix III: Army Cyberspace Operations
Army Organizations and Army organizations that conduct cyberspace operations are
Personnel Conducting organizationally aligned across seven major commands and are either
aligned with U.S. Cyber Command (CYBERCOM) or retained by the
Cyberspace Operations
Army, as shown in figure 9 below.
Figure 9: Army Organizations and Associated Personnel That Conduct Cyberspace Operations
Notes: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
Organizations that do not have data in the bottom-right corner of the cell do not conduct cyberspace
operations but have some level of command-and-control of Army organizations that conduct
cyberspace operations.
Page 34 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 41

Appendix III: Army Cyberspace Operations
The Army CYBERCOM-aligned organizations include higher-
headquarters commands down to battalions. Within those organizations,
there are smaller units (that are not counted as organizations in the
CYBERCOM-aligned total for the Army. For example, within U.S. Army
Cyber Command, there are personnel assigned to the three Cyberspace
Operations Integrated Planning Elements located in combatant
commands supported by Joint Force Headquarter-Cyber (Army).
Similarly, the Army has aligned its 62 Cyber Mission Force teams within
the battalions and cyber protection centers.
Service-retained organizations are spread throughout the Army. Most of
these organizations are aligned under the Army Network Enterprise
Technology Command and primarily provide Department of Defense
Information Network (DODIN) operations. In addition to the organizations
identified above, there are 60 Network Enterprise Centers subordinate to
theater signal brigades (and their respective battalions). Since these
centers can be subordinate to battalions, we did not count each center as
an organization; however, we counted the personnel associated with
these centers in the battalion totals.
The Army has two cybersecurity service providers: (1) U.S. Army Cyber
Command cybersecurity service provider, which is executed through the
Army Network Enterprise Technology Command’s five regional cyber
centers, and (2) U.S. Army Command, Control, Communications,
Computers, Cyber, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
Center, according to Army officials.
The Army National Guard identified 347 personnel assigned to Defensive
Cyber Operations Elements within each state, territory, and the District of
Columbia. These units were established to support and be responsive to
joint, Army, and domestic cyber requirements. We did not include these
units since they are smaller than battalion-level units.
Army Organizations and The Army reported that 11 organizations and 1,556 personnel provide
Personnel Supporting budgetary, personnel, policy, and training support for Army cyberspace
Cyberspace Operations
Page 35 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 42

Appendix III: Army Cyberspace Operations
operations.1 Figure 10 shows the breakdown of Army personnel and
organizations providing that support.
Figure 10: Number of Army Military and Civilian Personnel Providing Budgetary,
Personnel, Policy, and Training Support
Note: Support personnel can work in more than one support area, so to avoid overcounting, we asked
organizations to report their primary work area.
1The Army also has organizations that provide other types of support such as intelligence.
For example, in 2021, U.S. Army Cyber Command established a Cyber-Military
Intelligence Group whose purpose is to enable U.S. Army Cyber Command to operate,
defend, attack, and influence across the information dimension and cyber domain, in
conflict and in competition. To do this, the group provides tailored intelligence capabilities
to include the collection, analysis, and production of reports or assessments of all source
intelligence and information.
Page 36 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 43

Appendix IV: Na vy Cyberspace Operations
Appendix IV: Navy Cyberspace Operations
According to information that Navy organizations provided us, the service
has 19 organizations (consisting of 6,741 personnel and 342 contractors)
that conduct cyberspace operations, as shown in figure 11.
Figure 11: Navy Organizations and Personnel Conducting Cyberspace Operations
Notes: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
In addition to units that are established (in part or whole) for conducting cyberspace operations, there
are DOD personnel and contractors who conduct cyberspace operations but are assigned to DOD
organizations whose primary purpose is not to conduct cyberspace operations. For example, the
Navy identified 3,038 authorized billets that conduct DODIN operations aboard naval vessels that
reside in units that are not task organized to conduct cyberspace operations. We did not include
these individuals within the scope of this report as DOD did not have a way to identify these
individuals consistently and reliably.
Our totals for personnel conducting cyberspace operations only includes filled positions. We used
unfilled positions to determine how many authorized positions are vacant. Accordingly, the vacancy
rate reflects the percentage of authorized billets that do not have a military service member or civilian
employee filling that billet. For the purposes of the figure above, a 13 to 59 percent vacancy rate
means that an organization had less positions filled than authorized.
Page 37 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


### Tables

#### Table 1

|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |

## Page 44

Appendix IV: Navy Cyberspace Operations
Navy Organizations and Most of the Navy organizations report to the “multi-hatted” commander of
Personnel Conducting Fleet Cyber Command, as shown in figure 12 below.
Cyberspace Operations
Figure 12: Navy Organizations and Associated Personnel That Conduct Cyberspace Operations
Notes: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
Organizations that do not have a triangle in the bottom-right corner of the cell do not conduct
cyberspace operations but have some level of command-and-control of Marine Corps organizations
that conduct cyberspace operations.
The four Naval Information Operations Commands are depicted in this graphic because they provide
administrative control over some Navy CMF teams. The number of personnel identified reflect the
number of personnel associated with the CMF teams in this report—and not the four commands.
According to Navy officials, the commands are not task-organized to conduct cyberspace operations.
Navy Cyber Defense Operations Command is a service-retained organization and includes personnel
associated with one of the Navy’s cybersecurity service providers. In addition, the Navy has assigned
CYBERCOM-aligned CMF teams to the command.
As reflected above, the six U.S. Cyber Command CYBERCOM-aligned
organizations include higher-headquarters commands down to a unit that
provides personnel to the Joint Mission Operations Center. Within those
organizations, there are smaller units that are not counted as
organizations in the total for the Navy. For example, within U.S. Fleet
Cyber Command, there are personnel assigned to the three Cyberspace
Operations Integrated Planning Elements located in combatant
commands supported by Joint Force Headquarters-Cyber (Navy).
Page 38 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 45

Appendix IV: Navy Cyberspace Operations
Similarly, the Navy has aligned its 40 Cyber Mission Force teams across
multiple commands listed above.
The Navy-retained organizations consist of the following:
• Navy Cyber Defense Operations Command, which serves as the
Navy’s cybersecurity service provider.1 It coordinates, monitors, and
oversees the defense of Navy computer networks and systems and
executes some defensive cyberspace operations.
• Naval Network Warfare Command, which executes tactical-level
command and control to direct, operate, maintain, and secure Navy
communications and network systems for the Department of Defense
Information Network (DODIN) to optimize availability and security of
Navy communications and network systems.
• Naval Computer and Telecommunications Area Master Stations,
which provide command, control, communications, computers, and
intelligence warfighting support to naval, joint, agency, and coalition
forces afloat and ashore. They conduct DODIN cyberspace
operations.
• Naval Information Warfare Center Atlantic, which provides
information technology and electronic systems engineering,
operations and support capabilities. It includes a Defense Working
Capital fund nonprofit, fee-for-service organization that provides
cybersecurity service provider services to other Department of
Defense organizations.
Navy Organizations and The Navy reported that 10 organizations and 289 personnel provide
Personnel Supporting policy, budgetary, and training support for Navy cyberspace operations.
Figure 13 shows the breakdown of Navy personnel and organizations
Cyberspace Operations
providing budgetary, personnel, policy, and training support.
1The Navy Cyber Defense Operations Command includes Cyber Mission Force personnel
in addition to personnel fulfilling the command’s cybersecurity service provider function.
Page 39 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 46

Appendix IV: Navy Cyberspace Operations
Figure 13: Number of Navy Military and Civilian Personnel Providing Budgetary,
Personnel, Policy, and Training Support
Note: Support personnel can work in more than one support area, so to avoid overcounting, we asked
organizations to report their primary work area.
Page 40 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 47

Appendix V: Ma rine Corps Cyberspace
Appendix V: Marine Corps Cyberspace
Operations
Operations
According to information that Marine Corps organizations provided us, the
service has 21 organizations (consisting of 8,578 personnel and 1,538
contractors) that conduct cyberspace operations, as shown in figure 14.
Figure 14: Marine Corps Organizations and Personnel Conducting Cyberspace Operations
Notes: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
In addition to units that are established (in part or whole) for conducting cyberspace operations, there
are DOD personnel and contractors who conduct cyberspace operations but are assigned to DOD
organizations whose primary purpose is not to conduct cyberspace operations. For example, the
Marine Corps has personnel assigned to reconnaissance battalions and logistics organizations that
may conduct DODIN operations in cyberspace. We did not include these individuals within the scope
of this report as DOD did not have a way to identify these individuals consistently and reliably.
Our totals for personnel conducting cyberspace operations only includes filled positions. We used
unfilled positions to determine how many authorized positions are vacant. Accordingly, the vacancy
rate reflects the percentage of authorized billets that do not have a military service member or civilian
employee filling that billet. For the purposes of the figure above, a 0 percent vacancy rate means that
the number of filled positions equals the number of authorized positions. A 53 percent vacancy rate
means that an organization conducting cyberspace operations reported having filled less than half the
personnel authorized (i.e., the organization reported having 753 authorized cyberspace operations
billets, but only 356 of those billets were filled).
Page 41 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix V: Ma rine Corps Cyberspace
Appendix V: Marine Corps Cyberspace
Operations |
| Operations |

#### Table 2

|  |
|  |
|  |

## Page 48

Appendix V: Marine Corps Cyberspace
Operations
Marine Corps As shown in figure 15 below, Marine Corps organizations are aligned
Organizations and under U.S. Marine Force Cyber Command or spread across the Marine
Expeditionary Forces.
Personnel Conducting
Cyberspace Operations
Figure 15: Marine Corps Organizations and Associated Personnel That Conduct Cyberspace Operations
Notes: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
Organizations that do not have data in the bottom-right corner of the cell do not conduct cyberspace
operations but have some level of command-and-control of Marine Corps organizations that conduct
cyberspace operations. In responding to the draft report, U.S. Marine Corps Forces Reserve
identified a communications squadron that conducts DODIN operations and defensive cyberspace
operations; however, we did not include this organization and its personnel since the command did
not provide us the number of authorized and filled personnel.
As reflected above, the seven U.S. Cyber Command-aligned
organizations include higher-headquarters commands down to network
and cyberspace operations battalions. Within those organizations, there
are smaller units that are not counted as organizations in the total for the
Marine Corps. For example, within U.S. Marine Forces Cyberspace
Command, there are personnel assigned to a Cyberspace Operations-
Page 42 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 49

Appendix V: Marine Corps Cyberspace
Operations
Integrated Planning Element that supports U.S. Special Operations
Command. Within the Marine Corps Cyberspace Warfare Group, we
included personnel that are assigned to the Joint Mission Operations
Center and some of the Cyber Mission Force (CMF) teams. In addition,
we have included personnel associated with the remaining CMF teams
within the Marine Corps Cyberspace Operations Battalion. Further, the
Marine Corps Cyberspace Operations Group and its three network
battalions serve as the service’s cybersecurity service provider.
The Marine Corps-retained organizations that conduct cyberspace
operations include:
• Deputy Commandant of Information that develops and supervises
plans, policies, and strategy for operating in the information
environment and identifies requirements in doctrine, manpower,
training, education, and equipment. While this office supports
organizations that conduct cyberspace operations (as noted earlier in
this report), the office has two small teams—a Blue Team and a White
Team—that conduct cyberspace operations.
• Four communication battalions that establish, maintain, and defend
communication networks in support of air-ground task forces, Marine
Corps component headquarters, or Joint Task Force headquarters.1
They conduct a mix of defensive and Department of Defense
Information Network (DODIN) operations.
• Three radio battalions that provide signals intelligence, limited
cyberspace operations, and special intelligence communications
support to the Marine Air Ground Task Force and Joint Forces
Commander. They conduct a mix of offensive and defensive
cyberspace operations.
• Three wing communication squadrons that provide
communications support for Marine Corps aviation combat elements.
They conduct DODIN cyberspace operations.
Marine Corps The Marine Corps reported that seven organizations with 174 personnel
Organizations and provide policy, personnel, budgetary, and training support for Marine
Corps cyberspace operations. The Marine Corps relies on Department of
Personnel Supporting
Navy for budgetary, personnel, policy, and training support for
Cyberspace Operations
cyberspace operations, but the Marine Corps Office of the Deputy
1In responding to the draft report, U.S. Marine Corps Forces, Pacific stated that the
organization that conducted cyberspace operations subordinate to a communications
battalion at the time of our review had subsequently been realigned under the III Marine
Expeditionary Force Information Group.
Page 43 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 50

Appendix V: Marine Corps Cyberspace
Operations
Commandant for Information and six other Marine Corps organizations
provide some support.
Figure 16 shows the breakdown of Marine Corps personnel providing
budgetary, personnel, policy, and training support.
Figure 16: Number of Marine Corps Military and Civilian Personnel Providing
Budgetary, Personnel, Policy, and Training Support
Notes: Support personnel can work in more than one support area, so to avoid overcounting, we
asked organizations to report their primary work area.
The Department of the Navy also provides support to the Marine Corps; however, to avoid double
counting, we did not include Navy personnel in the Marine Corps figure totals.
Page 44 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 51

Appendix VI: Ai r Force Cyberspace
Appendix VI: Air Force Cyberspace Operations
Operations
According to information that Air Force organizations provided us, the
service has 283 organizations (consisting of 26,114 personnel and 364
contractors) that conduct cyberspace operations, as shown in figure 17
below.
Figure 17: Air Force Organizations and Personnel Conducting Cyberspace Operations
Notes: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
In addition to units that are established (in part or whole) for conducting cyberspace operations, there
are DOD personnel and contractors who conduct cyberspace operations but are assigned to DOD
organizations whose primary purpose is not to conduct cyberspace operations. For example, the Air
Force may have personnel assigned within an Air Force special operations unit who conduct
cyberspace operations (e.g., DODIN operations). We did not include these individuals within the
scope of this report as DOD did not have a way to identify these individuals consistently and reliably.
Our totals for personnel conducting cyberspace operations only includes filled positions. We used
unfilled positions to determine how many authorized positions are vacant. Accordingly, the vacancy
rate reflects the percentage of authorized billets that do not have a military service member or civilian
employee filling that billet. For the purposes of the figure above, a -88 percent vacancy rate means
that an organization conducting cyberspace operations reported having more personnel than
authorized (i.e., the organization reported having only 43 authorized billets but, at the same time,
reported having 81 filled cyberspace operations billets). Conversely, a 47 percent vacancy rate
Page 45 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix VI: Ai r Force Cyberspace
Appendix VI: Air Force Cyberspace Operations |
| Operations |

#### Table 2

|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |

## Page 52

Appendix VI: Air Force Cyberspace Operations
means that an organization conducting cyberspace operations reported having filled about half the
personnel authorized (i.e., the organization reported having 15 authorized cyberspace operations
billets, but only eight of those billets were filled).
Air Force Organizations As shown in figure 18 below, Air Force organizations are spread across a
and Personnel Conducting multitude of major commands and down to hundreds of cyberspace
operations squadrons.
Cyberspace Operations
Figure 18: Air Force Organizations and Associated Personnel That Conduct Cyberspace Operations
Notes: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel are defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
Organizations that do not have a triangle in the bottom-right corner of the cell do not conduct
cyberspace operations but have some level of command-and-control of Air Force organizations that
conduct cyberspace operations.
The Air Force has 90 (combat) communications squadrons, five (combat) communications groups,
and one wing that conduct DODIN operations across the service’s eight active-duty major commands.
To manage the width of this figure, we depicted all active duty (combat) communications (and related
Air Force organizations) in this one column. One of these combat communications groups and four of
the (combat) communications squadrons are organizationally aligned under the 688th Cyberspace
Wing and 616th Operations Center.
Page 46 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 53

Appendix VI: Air Force Cyberspace Operations
The 45 U.S. Cyber Command-aligned organizations include higher-
headquarters commands down to cyberspace operations squadrons.
Within those organizations, there are smaller units that are not counted as
organizations in the total for the Air Force. For example, within Air Forces
Cyber, there are personnel assigned to the four Cyberspace Operations
Integrated Planning Elements located in combatant commands supported
by Joint Force Headquarter-Cyber (Air Force). Similarly, the Air Force has
aligned its 42 Cyber Mission Force teams across cyberspace operations
squadrons.
Air Force-retained organizations that conduct cyberspace operations
include:
• (Combat) communications units, which conduct Department of
Defense Information Network (DODIN) operations across the Air
Force. Personnel in these units comprise approximately 90 percent of
the personnel in service-retained units that conduct cyberspace
operations.
• 688th Cyberspace Wing, which provides intelligence and tactics,
techniques, and procedures; deployable warfighter communications;
engineering and installation capabilities; defensive cyber operations;
and network security operations across the Air Force network. The
wing’s cyberspace operations personnel are spread across the wing’s
headquarters, cyberspace operations groups and squadrons
(including operations support squadrons, (combat) communication
groups and squadrons, network operations squadrons, engineering
squadrons, and intelligence support squadrons).
• 10th Air Force and the 960th Cyberspace Wing, which serve as the
Air Force Reserve component’s primary contribution to service
cyberspace operations missions, including offensive cyberspace
operations, defensive cyberspace operations, and DODIN operations.
• 616th Operations Center operationalizes, synchronizes, and
commands and controls Air Force cyber, intelligence, and information
warfare capabilities to deliver strategic effects. The unit conducts
offensive, defensive, and DODIN cyberspace operations.
• 700th Air Support Squadron supports the Air Force Commander’s
and the Combined Forces Air Component Commander’s ability to
command and control air and space forces by providing command
and control data backup, continuity of operations support, operational
support, and the Tier 1 Help Desk.
Page 47 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 54

Appendix VI: Air Force Cyberspace Operations
• Cybersecurity Service Providers. The Air Force has two
components that are authorized to provide one or more cybersecurity
services (such as continuous monitoring, incident handling, and
DODIN user activity monitoring for the Department of Defense (DOD)
Insider Threat Program) to DOD components. First, 16th Air Force
has three squadrons that serve as its cybersecurity service provider.
Second, U.S. Air Forces Central Command was authorized to operate
as a cybersecurity service provider in 2024.
The Air Force also identified 1,490 personnel assigned to units smaller
than squadrons that conduct DODIN operations. Most of these personnel
(1,300) are assigned to Air National Guard communications flights. Of the
remaining personnel, 170 are Air Force Reserve personnel assigned to
communications flights, and 20 support an active-duty organization. We
did not include these personnel in our overall count since the data were
provided to us in a manner that we could not readily identify a higher-
headquarters organization (i.e., squadron-level or higher) to these smaller
units.
Air Force Organizations The Air Force reported that 17 organizations and 1,003 personnel provide
and Personnel Supporting either budgetary, personnel, policy, and training support for Air Force
cyberspace operations. Figure 19 shows the breakdown of Air Force
Cyberspace Operations
personnel providing that support.
Figure 19: Number of Air Force Military and Civilian Personnel Providing Budgetary,
Personnel, Policy, and Training Support
Note: Support personnel can work in more than one support area, so to avoid overcounting, we asked
organizations to report their primary work area.
Page 48 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 55

Appendix VII: S pace Force Cyberspace
Appendix VII: Space Force Cyberspace
Operations
Operations
According to information that Space Force organizations provided us, the
service has 18 organizations (consisting of 1,113 personnel and 62
contractors) that conduct or support cyberspace operations, as shown in
Figure 20 below.
Figure 20: Space Force Organizations and Personnel Conducting Cyberspace Operations
Notes: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
Our totals for personnel conducting cyberspace operations only includes filled positions. We used
unfilled positions to determine how many authorized positions are vacant. Accordingly, the vacancy
rate reflects the percentage of authorized billets that do not have a military service member or civilian
employee filling that billet. For the purposes of the figure above, a -171 percent vacancy rate means
that an organization conducting cyberspace operations reported having more than twice as many
personnel than authorized (i.e., the organization reported having only 34 authorized billets but, at the
same time, reported having 92 filled cyberspace operations billets). Conversely, a 68 percent vacancy
rate means that an organization conducting cyberspace operations reported having filled only one-
third of the personnel authorized (i.e., the organization reported having 37 authorized cyberspace
operations billets, but only 12 of those billets were filled).
Space Force As shown in figure 21 below, the Space Force is different than the other
Organizations and military services in that it: (1) does not have a service cyber component or
Personnel Conducting
Cyberspace Operations
Page 49 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix VII: S pace Force Cyberspace
Appendix VII: Space Force Cyberspace
Operations |
| Operations |

#### Table 2

|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |

## Page 56

Appendix VII: Space Force Cyberspace
Operations
any U.S. Cyber Command-aligned organizations and (2) does not
conduct offensive cyberspace operations.1
Figure 21: Space Force Organizations and Associated Personnel That Conduct Cyberspace Operations
Notes: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
Organizations that do not have a triangle in the bottom-right corner of the cell do not conduct
cyberspace operations but have some level of command-and-control of Space Force organizations
that conduct cyberspace operations.
Delta 26 is detailed to the National Reconnaissance Office but consists of U.S. Space Force units and
personnel.
Since the service does not have a service cyber component, the highest-
ranking organization that conducts cyberspace operations is the Space
Force delta—a command that combines the wing and group command
echelons found in the Air Force. The Space Force has two delta
commands that conduct cyberspace operations:
• Space Delta 6. Space Delta 6’s mission is to assure U.S. access to
space through operations of the Satellite Control Network and to
conduct cyberspace operations to defend Space Force space
systems from adversarial attack. In addition, Delta 6 serves as the
service’s cybersecurity service provider.
• Space Delta 26. Space Delta 26 conducts defensive and Department
of Defense information network cyberspace operations for the
National Reconnaissance Office.
1According to Space Force officials, the service plans to establish a service cyber
component in the middle of 2025.
Page 50 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 57

Appendix VII: Space Force Cyberspace
Operations
Operational control for Space Force organizations conducting cyberspace
operations generally flows through the Chief of Space Operations.
Administrative control generally flows down from the Secretary of the Air
Force through the Chief of Space Operations.
Space Force The Space Force reported that four organizations with 37 personnel
Organizations and provide policy, personnel, budgetary, and training support for Space
Force cyberspace operations. The Space Force primarily relies on the
Personnel Supporting
Department of the Air Force for budgetary, personnel, policy, and training
Cyberspace Operations
support for cyberspace for operations; however, four Space Force
organizations—Office of the Chief Operating Officer, Office of the Chief
Technology and Innovation Officer, Space Operations Command, and
Space Training and Readiness Command—also provide in-house
support.2 Figure 22 shows the breakdown of Space Force personnel and
organizations providing budgetary, personnel, policy, and training
support.
Figure 22: Number of Space Force Military and Civilian Personnel Providing
Budgetary, Personnel, Policy, and Training Support
Note: Support personnel can work in more than one support area, so to avoid overcounting, we asked
organizations to report their primary work area.
The Department of the Air Force also provides support to Space Force; however, to avoid double
counting, we did not include Air Force personnel in the Space Force figure totals.
2According to Space Force officials, the Space Force Chief Technology and Innovation
Officer office was disestablished in early 2025, and the personnel in the office were
assigned to the Space Force cyber and communications (S6) office.
Page 51 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 58

Appendix VIII: C ybersecurity Service
Appendix VIII: Cybersecurity Service Provider
(CSSP) Cyberspace Operations
Provider (CSSP) Cyberspace Operations
Department of Defense (DOD) Manual 8530.01 requires every DOD
component to designate a component-level organization to coordinate,
direct, and manage network operations and cybersecurity activities.
These organizations—known as CSSPs—serve as the focal point for
implementing and conducting component-wide cybersecurity activities for
DOD Information Network (DODIN) operations and defensive cyber
operations. CSSPs provide cybersecurity services (such as continuous
monitoring, incident handling, and the insider threat process, among other
services) to DOD components.
CSSPs Conduct As of December 2024, there are 23 DOD CSSPs authorized to operate.1
Cyberspace Operations The number of personnel assigned to two of the CSSPs are classified,
but the other 21 CSSPs have 3,203 employees and four contractor
personnel that conduct cyberspace operations.
Unlike other DOD organizations that conduct cyberspace operations,
CSSPs have more contractor personnel than employees conducting
operations across all organizations.
CSSPs can either (1) conduct operations within their own components or
(2) provide services externally for other DOD components, as shown in
table 5.
1DOD components that wish to provide cybersecurity service provider services must be
authorized to operate by the command of U.S. Cyber Command every 3 years.
Page 52 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix VIII: C ybersecurity Service
Appendix VIII: Cybersecurity Service Provider
(CSSP) Cyberspace Operations |
| Provider (CSSP) Cyberspace Operations |

#### Table 2

|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |

## Page 59

Appendix VIII: Cybersecurity Service Provider
(CSSP) Cyberspace Operations
Table 5: Department of Defense (DOD) Cybersecurity Service Providers (CSSP)
Type of cyberspace operation
Defensive DOD Information Provides
cyberspace Network services Number of Number of
CSSP operations operations externally employees contractors
1. 16th Air Forcea Yes Yes No 323 103
2. U.S Air Forces Centrala Yes Yes No 8 0
3. U.S. Army Cyber Commanda Yes Yes No 334 0
4. Command, Control, Communications, Yes No Yes 19 213
Computers, Cyber, Intelligence, Surveillance
and Reconnaissance Centera
5. Coast Guard Cyber Commandb Yes Yes No 231 68
6. Defense Advanced Research Projects Yes Yes No 1 80
Agency
7. Defense Finance and Accounting Service Yes No No 20 18
8. Defense Information Systems Agency Yes No Yes 133 498
9. Defense Intelligence Agency Yes No No 19 42
10. Defense Logistics Agency Yes No No 65 62
11. Defense Threat Reduction Agency Yes No No 4 28
12. High Performance Computing Modernization Yes No Yes 15 60
Program
13. Marine Corps Forces Cyberspace Yes Yes No 951 1,460
Commanda
14. Missile Defense Agency Yes Yes No 9 48
15. National Geospatial Intelligence Agency Yes No No 29 130
16. National Reconnaissance Office Yes Yes No 68 598
17. National Security Agencyc
18. Navy Cyber Defense Operations Commanda Yes No No 713 66
19. Navy Information Warfare Center Atlantica Yes No Yes 27 111
20. U.S. Space Forcea Yes No No 35 43
21. U.S. Special Operations Commandc
22. U.S. Strategic Command Yes Yes No 190 315
23. U.S. Transportation Command Yes Yes No 9 40
Source: GAO analysis of DOD cyberspace operations information. | GAO-25-107121
Note: For the purposes of this report, DOD personnel is defined as military service members and
civilian employees working in DOD.
aThe number of personnel and contractors associated with service CSSPs are also included in the
respective service’s profile pages (see appendixes III-VII).
bWe included the Coast Guard CSSP in this assessment since the service operates and defends a
segment of the Department of Defense Information Network.
cThe number of personnel and contactors associated with the National Security Agency and Special
Operations Command are classified. Therefore, they are not included in this unclassified report.
Page 53 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 60

Appendix VIII: Cybersecurity Service Provider
(CSSP) Cyberspace Operations
CSSP Command and Each CSSP operates under the authority of at least two separate
Control organizations. First, CSSPs operate under the operational control and
administrative control of the respective organization’s leadership.2 This
leadership could be the agency’s Chief Information Officer or Chief
Information Security Officer, a directorate head, or a higher-headquarter
military command. For example, the
• Defense Threat Reduction Agency CSSP reports to the agency’s
Chief Information Officer, according to Defense Threat Reduction
Agency officials.
• Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency CSSP reports to the
director of the agency’s Information Technology Directorate.
• Service military units that serve as CSSPs for their respective
services report to higher headquarter military commands.
• Three CSSPs located within a combatant command (Special
Operations Command, Strategic Command, and Transportation
Command) report to the head of their respective J6 directorates.
Second, CSSPs provide reporting and information to the DOD Cyber
Defense Command. DOD Cyber Defense Command possesses Directive
Authority for Cyberspace Operations, which provides the standing
authority to direct the tactical execution of global cyberspace security,
operations, and defensive actions by issuing binding orders to all
elements of the DODIN.
Personnel Supporting The non-service CSSP’s receive budgetary, personnel, policy, and
CSSP Cyberspace training support from organizations within their component. In total,
according to data provided by DOD, 118 personnel provide support for
Operations
CSSP cyberspace operations.3 Figure 23 shows a comparison of the
number of personnel providing these types of support for CSSP
cyberspace operations.
2Operational control is the authority to perform those functions of command over
subordinate forces involving organizing and employing commands and forces, assigning
tasks, designating objectives, and giving authoritative direction necessary to accomplish
the mission. Administrative control is the authority necessary to fulfill military department
Title 10 responsibilities for administration, support, and organizing, training and equipping
military forces.
3This number does not include personnel providing support to service component CSSPs.
Information about the services is identified in appendixes II-VII.
Page 54 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 61

Appendix VIII: Cybersecurity Service Provider
(CSSP) Cyberspace Operations
Figure 23: Number of Cybersecurity Service Provide (CSSP) Military and Civilian
Personnel Providing Budgetary, Personnel, Policy, and Training Support
Note: Support personnel can work in more than one support area, so to avoid overcounting, we asked
organizations to report their primary work area.
Page 55 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 62

Appendix I X: Comments from the
Appendix IX: Comments from the Department
of Defense
Department of Defense
Page 56 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix I X: Comments from the
Appendix IX: Comments from the Department
of Defense |
| Department of Defense |

## Page 63

Appendix IX: Comments from the Department
of Defense
Page 57 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


## Page 64

Appendix X: GA O Contact and Staff
Appendix X: GAO Contact and Staff
Acknowledgments
Acknowledgments
Joseph W. Kirschbaum at kirschbaumj@gao.gov
GAO Contact
In addition to the contact named above, Tommy Baril (Assistant Director),
Staff
Shawn Arbogast (Analyst-in-Charge), Lucas Smith, Eli Adler, and
Acknowledgments
Katherine Earle made significant contributions to this report. In addition,
Sharon Ballinger, Tracy Barnes, Christopher Gezon, Elisebet Lalisan, and
Michael Silver provided additional support.
Page 58 GAO-25-107121 DOD Cyberspace Operations


### Tables

#### Table 1

| Appendix X: GA O Contact and Staff
Appendix X: GAO Contact and Staff
Acknowledgments |
| Acknowledgments |

## Page 65

The Government Accountability Office, the audit, evaluation, and investigative
GAO’s Mission
arm of Congress, exists to support Congress in meeting its constitutional
responsibilities and to help improve the performance and accountability of the
federal government for the American people. GAO examines the use of public
funds; evaluates federal programs and policies; and provides analyses,
recommendations, and other assistance to help Congress make informed
oversight, policy, and funding decisions. GAO’s commitment to good government
is reflected in its core values of accountability, integrity, and reliability.
The fastest and easiest way to obtain copies of GAO documents at no cost is
Obtaining Copies of
through our website. Each weekday afternoon, GAO posts on its website newly
GAO Reports and released reports, testimony, and correspondence. You can also subscribe to
GAO’s email updates to receive notification of newly posted products.
Testimony
Order by Phone The price of each GAO publication reflects GAO’s actual cost of production and
distribution and depends on the number of pages in the publication and whether
the publication is printed in color or black and white. Pricing and ordering
information is posted on GAO’s website, https://www.gao.gov/ordering.htm.
Place orders by calling (202) 512-6000, toll free (866) 801-7077, or
TDD (202) 512-2537.
Orders may be paid for using American Express, Discover Card, MasterCard,
Visa, check, or money order. Call for additional information.
Connect with GAO on X, LinkedIn, Instagram, and YouTube.
Connect with GAO
Subscribe to our Email Updates. Listen to our Podcasts.
Visit GAO on the web at https://www.gao.gov.
Contact FraudNet:
To Report Fraud,
Website: https://www.gao.gov/about/what-gao-does/fraudnet
Waste, and Abuse in
Automated answering system: (800) 424-5454
Federal Programs
Sarah Kaczmarek, Managing Director, Media@gao.gov
Media Relations
A. Nicole Clowers, Managing Director, CongRel@gao.gov
Congressional
Relations
https://www.gao.gov/about/contact-us
General Inquiries
PleasePrintonRecycledPaper.

